---
slug: -conference-looks-at-broadband-issues
title: " Conference looks at broadband issues"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>With better broadband service, residents could be alerted to the dangers posed by forest fires. Medical information could be more readily available to practitioners in rural health clinics. People could have expanded opportunities to access education, and grandparents could connect with their grandchildren via live video. Anyone interested in learning about California’s broadband policy; digital literacy initiatives; cell towers, broadband and land use issues; and fiber to the home is invited to attend a two-day conference, Next Gen Broadband: Filling the Gaps for California’s Communities, to be held March 24 and 25 at CSU Monterey Bay’s Tanimura and Antle Family Memorial Library. The conference is hosted by the university's Wireless Education and Technology Center. Participants will share research and case studies focusing on how broadband applications help to foster economic growth and job creation, sustain small businesses, expand government and community services, and offer incentives for new enterprises. Lev Gonick, chief information officer of Case Western Reserve University, will deliver the keynote address via video conference. His talk, “Building the Smart Connected City: A Platform Vision for the Future,” focuses on bringing fiber connections to five low-income neighborhoods in Cleveland. Researchers believe that broadband, along with training and computers, may be a critical factor in improving these residents’ lives. The two-day registration fee is $95, which includes a reception and dinner at Kula Ranch in Marina. One-day registration is also available. Registration can be completed online <a href="http://wetec.csumb.edu">here</a>. A limited number of complimentary registrations are available. Contact Arlene Krebs, conference director, at (831) 582-5025.
</p><p>The library is located on Divarty Street. For driving directions and a campus map, visit csumb.edu/map.
</p><p> 
</p>
