---
title: Wireless
date: October 19 2005
slug: wireless
---




<span class="date">Posted on Oct 19, 2005    </span>
<p>A survey conducted by Intel Corp. in conjunction with the Center
for Digital Education ranks CSUMB among the top wireless campuses
in the nation. The survey, which was published in a recent edition
of U.S. News &amp; World Report, ranks the university 12th among
the top 50. It&apos;s one of only four schools in California to make the
list, and the only public university.</p>
<table>
<tr class="odd">
<td/>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>
<p>Students participate in a garbology project using wireless
technology to track data.</p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p>Intel sponsored the survey to identify the U.S. colleges and
universities that have the greatest wireless Internet access. Bert
Sperling, noted researcher and creator of the &quot;Best Places&quot;
studies, conducted the survey.<br>
<br>
CSUMB&apos;s academic and administrative buildings, residence halls,
dining facilities and green spaces have wireless access. Survey
findings are based on the percentage of each campus that is covered
by wireless technology, the number of undergraduate students and
the computer-to-student ratio for each school.</br></br></p>
<p>CSUMB made this year&apos;s rankings not only because it has
implemented wireless access throughout campus, but also because it
is in the forefront of exploring innovative ways to use this new
technology through the Wireless Education and Technology Center
based on campus.</p>
<p>&quot;We have 20 projects with 28 faculty that will leave you
flabbergasted,&quot; said Arlene Krebs, director of the wireless center.
The center - which was created in 2002 - has been awarded more than
$400,000 for wireless equipment, including digital cameras and
printers and handheld computers.</p>
<table>
<tr class="odd">
<td/>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>
<p>Installation of the DirecWay satellite enabling internet
connectivity from the Carmel Mission site.</p>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
<p>Students from the Division of Science and Environmental Policy
use Tablet PCs and digital cameras to revolutionize field geology;
science students conduct seafloor mapping in the Monterey Bay
National Marine Sanctuary and the Ross Sea in the Antarctic using
iPAQs and laptops; and archaeology students use wireless technology
in their field work at the Carmel and San Juan Bautista missions.
Other students, working with the education program at Elkhorn
Slough National Estuarine Research Reserve, installed a
solar-powered wireless transmitter at a research blind to provide
nomadic explorations of the bird and aquatic life to local school
children. These are just a few examples of how wireless technology
has been integrated into the teaching and learning environment at
CSUMB.</p>
<p>&quot;Wireless technology allows us to create networks where faculty
want to teach and where students want to learn. It causes a
fundamental realignment about creating educational spaces --
whether it&apos;s at Elkhorn Slough in the Monterey Bay or at the Ross
Sea in the Antarctic,&quot; said Gil Gonzales, the university&apos;s chief
information officer.</p>
<fieldset class="fieldgroup group-attachments">
<legend>Attachments</legend>
<div class="field field-type-emvideo field-field-attach-video">
<div class="field-items">
<div class="field-item odd">
<div class="emvideo emvideo-video emvideo-"/>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</fieldset>





