---
title: 2006 TAT Capstone
date: December 11 2006
slug: 2006-tat-capstone
---




<span class="date">Posted on Dec 11, 2006    </span>
<h4>TAT Capstone Festival presents real gems</h4>
<p>The World Theater is set to host a stellar crop of student films
and original media productions at the Fall Capstone Festival,
scheduled for Wednesday, Dec. 20 at 6 p.m. Admission is free.</p>
<p>The Capstone Festival will feature 14 top-quality productions,
including documentary, narrative and experimental works, all
produced by students of CSUMB&apos;s Teledramatic Arts and Technology
Department.</p>
<p>The program begins with Chris Anderson&apos;s humorous short film,
A.M. Adversary,</p>
<table style="width:238px; height:360px">
<tr class="odd">
<td/>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Mark Townsend&apos;s Veracity, a gripping crime drama exploring the
grayscale of morality on the police force, is one of the films that
will be shown on Dec. 20.</td>
</tr>
</table>
about the race to stay just one step ahead of the neighbors. It
will be followed by Sergio Zendejas&apos; captivating documentary, Un
Dia Con Los Muertos, which explores an annual tradition on the
island of Janitzio, Mexico.
<p>Also on the program:</p>
<ul>
<li>Joe Lahiff&apos;s A Word From Our Sponsor, a mad musical journey
into the brain-saturating world of advertising.</li>
<li>Brett Owen&apos;s Death to Vignettes, a duet of comedic
non-sequiters on modern Army recruitment techniques and the hazards
of DVD pirating.</li>
<li>Tara Evans&apos; Fire in My Heart, a powerful tale of love and
transformation within the White Power supremacy movement.</li>
<li>Joseph Telliard&apos;s Harry, a dark comedic tale of life in a
senior retirement center.</li>
<li>Mark Townsend&apos;s Veracity, a gripping crime drama exploring the
grayscale of morality on the police force.</li>
<li>Looking for You at the Five-and-Dime, R.Brian Gomez&apos;s audio
drama exploring the subtlety and nature of personal change in a
story that spans a nine-year period of riding Greyhound buses.</li>
<li>Regen Wulff&apos;s The Unluckiest Bastard, a Firesign Theatre-style
audio comedy about the results of a typical night&apos;s
debauchery.</li>
<li>Theresa Moore&apos;s Marine Mammal Project, a fun and informative
look at the Marine Mammal Center&apos;s efforts to preserve the marine
wildlife along our shores.</li>
<li>Dying to Belong, Melissa Lynch&apos;s intimate documentary exploring
the dangerous consequences of eating disorders.</li>
<li>Juan Figueroa&apos;s Lettuce Roots, a moving drama in Spanish and
English exploring a high school girl&apos;s difficult decision to
continue her education.</li>
<li>Taking Every Step at a Time, Steve Johnson&apos;s portrait of a
young man who has dedicated himself to the art of Irish step
dancing.</li>
<li>Elizabeth Dunn&apos;s documentary Nike Hyphy, which offers a look at
the subculture of &quot;sneaker freaks.&quot;</li>
</ul>
<p>The World Theater is located on Sixth Avenue, on the campus of
CSUMB. Parking is free. For more information, call the Department
of Teledramatic Arts and Technology at (831) 582-4396.<br/></p>
<fieldset class="fieldgroup group-attachments">
<legend>Attachments</legend>
<div class="field field-type-emvideo field-field-attach-video">
<div class="field-items">
<div class="field-item odd">
<div class="emvideo emvideo-video emvideo-"/>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</fieldset>





