---
title: Exploring the EEL
date: November 19 2007
slug: exploring-the-eel
---




<span class="date">Posted on Nov 19, 2007    </span>
<p><strong>Students and faculty combine scientific knowledge,
practical know-how, and a penchant for tinkering to invent new
research tools<br/></strong><br>
&quot;Don&apos;t look into the green lights, the lasers could blind you,&quot;
says Professor Steve Moore, the director of the Ecosystem
Electronics Lab, EEL for short. The lasers he&apos;s warning about are
mounted to the ROVing Otter, a suitcase-sized robotic submarine
usually deployed in Whaler&apos;s Cove off Point Lobos, just one of the
devices under development at the lab. Coveted by schoolchildren
across the nation, a chance to pilot the ROVing Otter brings
students into the murky depths of a kelp forest - made less murky
via headlights and green lasers - where they use the ROVing Otter&apos;s
web-based control system to steer the vehicle deep beneath the
undulating kelp. A streaming video webcam mounted to the vessel
allows students to check out anemones on the seafloor, follow fish,
or have a close encounter with a harbor seal, all from their own
classroom.<br>
<br>
Today the Otter sits on a cluttered countertop amid circuit boards,
screwdrivers, and spools of wire, waiting for Mike Bass (&apos;08) to
finish testing a new set of more powerful, more efficient thrusters
(better maneuverability for following fish) as part of his senior
Capstone project in the Earth Systems Science &amp; Policy
major.While Steve plays with the lasers, Mike is bent over a
Coleman cooler that has been transformed into a test tank,
measuring the thrust generated by a tiny motorized propeller. After
fiddling with the setup for a few minutes, he gives it the juice.
The propeller whirrs into action, jerking through the tank. Mike
checks a gauge to see how much power it took, and makes a
note.<br>
<br>
Across the room Coastal and Watershed Science &amp; Policy grad
students Tamara Myers (&apos;09) Shane Anderson (&apos;09), and Amanda Grant
(&apos;09) string electronic sensors onto small foam buoys. &quot;We&apos;re
working on a prototype for a low cost flow sensor,&quot; says Shane,
attaching the sensor to the buoy with a small wire.<br>
<br>
When finished, these sensors will be positioned offshore in
Monterey Bay to help assess fish habitat preferences. The fish in
these areas have already been tagged and their movements are being
tracked as part of a study led by CSUMB professor James Lindholm.
The sensors will measure ocean conditions like light, temperature
and water movement. When these data are correlated with data from
the tagged fish, CSUMB scientists will be able to hypothesize what
environmental factors make an area attractive to fish. This
information, in turn, can be used by state and federal agencies to
help protect the long-term sustainability of the local fishing
industry.<br>
<br>
The scientists in the EEL invent out of necessity, developing new
research tools because they either don&apos;t yet exist or the tools
that do exist cost too much. They bring together a diverse array of
scientific and engineering disciplines - from ecology to robotics -
and combine those with a strong sense of what&apos;s practical and a
penchant for tinkering. The result: usable technologies that reveal
the natural world in new ways.<br>
<br>
They don&apos;t limit themselves to aquatic environments either. Though
she hasn&apos;t made a final decision, Tamara is in talks with the
Ventana Wildlife Society (VWS) about a project that might help
bring California condors back from the brink of extinction. Based
on earlier EEL success with a wild barn owl nest camera done in
collaboration with the Hastings Natural History Reserve and Carmel
Middle School, the proposal involves placing web cameras in the
nests of condors recently released from captivity. Usually located
in craggy cliff faces or isolated canyons, condor nests are nearly
impossible to monitor. But, with today&apos;s technology,
conservationists may be able to observe the nesting birds and learn
what factors help or hurt their nesting success.<br>
<br>
Though the project has potential, Tamara faces some intense
challenges. How will she power the cameras? How will she transmit
the data? How will she design the system so that biologists can
mount the cameras without disturbing the birds? How will she keep
costs within the budget of a small nonprofit? Tough questions, but
also the sort of stuff EEL thrives on.<br>
<br>
Several campus and community partners, including WeTEC, the CSUMB
IT department, California State Parks, the Lindbergh Foundation,
and Remote Ocean Systems, Inc., provide the tools and financial
support that make solutions possible on a number of projects. As
Steve points out, &quot;The Ecosystem Electronics Lab provides fantastic
learning opportunities for CSUMB students while developing unique
nature-observing technologies to support a wide variety of
ecosystem research and education efforts. That&apos;s a tall order for a
small lab, and we depend heavily on generous support from many
campus and community partners - including funding agencies,
businesses, and private individuals - who provide the needed
expertise, equipment, supplies, and funding.&quot;<br>
<br>
In a world where technology is increasingly linked to a number of
environmental ills - global warming, habitat destruction, landfills
overflowing with e-waste - the students and faculty at work in the
EEL operate on a different paradigm, one in which robots work to
save the seafloor and raptors star in their own 24/7 web-based
reality shows. It&apos;s a place where technology and ecology come
together for research, discovery, education and conservation. Just
watch out for the green lasers.<br>
<br>
<strong>Related Links:</strong><br>
Division of Science and Environmental Policy (<a href="http://sep.csumb.edu/sep/" rel="nofollow">http://sep.csumb.edu/sep/</a>)<br>
More about the ROVing Otter:<br>
WeTEC Page ([ <a href="http://csumb.edu/site/x17370.xml" rel="nofollow">http://csumb.edu/site/x17370.xml</a>
]http://csumb.edu/site/x17370.xml)<br>
ROVing Otter Homepage ([ <a href="http://science.csumb.edu/ro/" rel="nofollow">http://science.csumb.edu/ro/</a>
]http://science.csumb.edu/ro/)<br>
Institute for Applied Marine Ecology ([ <a href="http://sep.csumb.edu/iame/" rel="nofollow">http://sep.csumb.edu/iame/</a>
]http://sep.csumb.edu/iame/)<br>
Carmel Middle School Owl Cam (<a href="http://home.csumb.edu/m/mooresteve/world/courses/zoology/OwlCam/CMS_OwlCam_Moore.htm" rel="nofollow">http://home.csumb.edu/m/mooresteve/world/courses/zoology/OwlCam/CMS_OwlCam_Moore.htm</a>)</br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></p>
<fieldset class="fieldgroup group-attachments">
<legend>Attachments</legend>
<div class="field field-type-emvideo field-field-attach-video">
<div class="field-items">
<div class="field-item odd">
<div class="emvideo emvideo-video emvideo-"/>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</fieldset>





