---
title: CAMP Grant 2007
date: October 31 2007
slug: camp-grant-2007
---




<span class="date">Posted on Oct 31, 2007    </span>
<p>California State University, Monterey Bay has received a $2
million federal grant aimed at enrolling more migrant students in
higher education.</p>
<p>CSUMB will be able to offer outreach and recruitment, financial
assistance, academic and career services, cultural and social
enrichment and health and counseling services through the College
Assistance Migrant Program grant, awarded by the U.S. Department of
Education.</p>
<p>The grant covers five years and will help with recruiting high
school students for college, as well as providing support for the
students once they are enrolled.</p>
<p>The grant will start in August and run through the summer of
2012. It will provide services and assistance for 60 migrant
students from Monterey, Santa Cruz, San Benito and Santa Clara
counties. CAMP scholarships, along with other sources of financial
aid, will cover 100 percent of tuition and books and more than half
of room and board costs for each student.</p>
<p>Services provided by the CAMP grant will include parent
orientations, high school and community outreach events, admissions
and financial aid application workshops, one-week summer
orientation programs, tutoring and follow-up support services
through graduation.</p>
<p>An estimated 160,000 farm workers reside in Monterey and Santa
Cruz counties, making the Central Coast home to the largest
population of farm workers in California. In Monterey County, the
average farm worker family has an annual income of $12,855; the
figure is $15,006 for Santa Cruz County residents.</p>
<p>In the Central Coast region, nearly 80 percent of
first-generation migrant youth between the ages of 16 and 24 are
not in school, making programs such as CAMP essential.</p>
<fieldset class="fieldgroup group-attachments">
<legend>Attachments</legend>
<div class="field field-type-emvideo field-field-attach-video">
<div class="field-items">
<div class="field-item odd">
<div class="emvideo emvideo-video emvideo-"/>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</fieldset>





