---
title: November 28 2007
date: November 28 2007
slug: november-28-2007
---




<span class="date">Posted on Nov 28, 2007    </span>
<p><strong>Don&apos;t forget the giving tree</strong><br>
&#xA0;It&apos;s become an annual tradition. University Human Resources
has set up a &quot;giving tree&quot; in the lobby of Bldg. 23 on Divarty
Street. This year, UHR is partnering with the Mexican American
Opportunity Foundation&apos;s Migrant Families Program in Salinas. The
program recognizes the hardships faced by agricultural working
families and provides children and their families with
comprehensive social and health services. Employees can help bring
holiday cheer to these families by choosing an ornament from the
giving tree. Each ornament is labeled with the name and age of a
child and what he or she would like for a holiday gift. After
purchasing the item, participants are asked to bring the wrapped
gift, along with the ornament, to UHR by Dec. 14. For further
information, call UHR at 582-3389.</br></p>
<p><strong>Tasteful houses sweeten party<br/></strong> &#xA0;As
Hansel and Gretel can attest, gingerbread houses, with their
candy-cane columns, gumdrop landscaping, peppermint pinwheel
decorations and icing trim, are practically irresistible. So it&apos;s
no surprise that these confectionary cottages - and other
structures - are the basis of a campus-wide competition now in its
fourth year. This year&apos;s competition, dubbed &quot;It&apos;s a Small World -
Campus Edition,&quot; will challenge each team to design and construct a
house with an international theme. Basic gingerbread house kits
will be provided and edible add-ons are allowed. The event will
take place in the University Center ballroom from 11:30 a.m. to
1:30 p.m. on Thursday, Dec. 13. On-lookers and cheering squads are
welcome. Finished houses will serve as table centerpieces at the
annual holiday party. The winner of the Best Use of Theme award
will be treated to a pizza party for up to 10 people courtesy of
Sodexho. To register a team, call Kerri Rivera in University Human
Resources at ext. 3389 by Dec. 7.</p>
<p><strong>Truths worth telling</strong><br>
<strong><em>Pentagon Papers whistleblower Daniel Ellsberg visits
campus Nov. 28<br/></em></strong>&#xA0;The President&apos;s Speakers
Series concludes this semester&apos;s presentations with a Nov. 28 visit
by Dr. Daniel Ellsberg, the RAND Corp. analyst who, in 1971, leaked
the classified Pentagon Papers to the New York Times. The documents
revealed the U.S. government had engaged in a pattern of deceiving
the public about the number of Vietnam War casualties and the
nation&apos;s ability to win the war. And they instantly validated the
antiwar protest movement. He&apos;ll be talking about his book,
&quot;Secrets: A Memoir of Vietnam and the Pentagon Papers,&quot; copies of
which will be available for sale. To reserve a seat for the free
event, <a href="http://csumb.edu/site/x19928.xml" rel="nofollow">click here</a>. To read more about Dr. Ellsberg,
<a href="truths-worth-telling.html" rel="nofollow">click here</a>.
The lecture will be broadcast on campus cable channel 71.</br></p>
<p><strong>Student art exhibit opens<br/></strong>&#xA0;Two
exhibitions will open in the Balfour/Brutzman gallery in Bldg. 71
with a reception for the artists from 3 to 4 p.m. on Dec. 4.
&quot;Invoke: A Project to Invite Memory and Forgiveness&quot; is a
collaboration of the digital public art class. The show features
the documentation of eight site-specific art &quot;interventions&quot;
responding to memory and forgiveness. These interventions took
place in public spaces on Nov. 1 in observance of Day of the Dead.
The second show, &quot;Community-Based Art: Social Change in Motion,&quot; is
the capstone project of Jessica Street. By looking at the work
being done in South Africa with HIV/AIDS patients, the power that
comes from the merging of creativity and community becomes obvious.
Students in the university&apos;s museum studies program curated the
exhibit, Hours are Thursday, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. and Friday noon to 3
p.m. Parking is available in lot 71 off Sixth Avenue. Please note
that the gallery will be closed Dec. 14 through Jan. 20 for winter
break.<br/></p>
<p><br>
<strong>Txt Msgs Alert U</strong><br>
<strong><em>Cell phones transmit safety alerts at
CSUMB<br/></em></strong>&#x2022; Cell phones - a convenient way to send
greetings to friends and family via text messages - have been
transformed into campus communications vehicles. At CSUMB, the
service is called - what else? - OTTERalert. They blast out
campus-wide security and emergency communication alarms - a service
that has been getting a lot of attention since the tragic shootings
at Virginia Tech.<br>
The campus community can rest assured that OTTERalert is for
emergency alerts only; those who sign up will not receive spam.
Privacy is protected, and only campus administrators and members of
the University Police Department can originate the messages. To
read more, <a href="index.html" rel="nofollow">click here</a>.</br></br></br></p>
<p><br/></p>
<p>&#xA0;<strong>Wednesday, Nov. 28</strong>: The President&apos;s
Speakers Series continues with a talk by Daniel Ellsberg, 7 p.m.,
World Theater. Overflow seating will be available in the University
Center ballroom<br>
&#xA0;<strong>Thursday, Nov. 29</strong>: VPA&apos;s visiting artist
series continues with a lecture and hands-on workshop with
scientific illustrator and CSUMB Provost Kathy Cruz-Uribe,
reception 6 p.m., lecture and workshop, 6:30 p.m., University
Center living room. For more information, <a href="http://vpa.csumb.edu/" rel="nofollow">click here</a>.<br>
&#xA0;<strong>Sunday, Dec. 2</strong>: Winter Concert put on by the
Music and Performing Arts Department, free, 3-5 p.m., World
Theater<br>
&#xA0;<strong>Tuesday, Dec. 4</strong>: Opening reception for new
exhibit of student work in the Balfour/Brutzman Gallery in Bldg.
71, 3 to 4 p.m.</br></br></br></p>
<p><strong>Upcoming<br/></strong>&#xA0;<strong>Thursday, Dec.
6</strong>: Osher Lifelong Learning Institute&apos;s faculty research
speaker series continues with a talk by Professor Johanna Poethig,
&quot;Creative Interventions in Public Space/Public Mind,&quot; 11 a.m.-noon,
Alumni and Visitors Center<br>
&#xA0;<strong>Saturday, Dec. 8</strong>: Return of the Natives
needs volunteers to help with planting in Natividad Creek Park from
10 a.m. to 1 p.m. Information: watershed.csumb.edu/ron</br></p>
<p><br>
<br/></br></p>
<p><br>
&#xA0;</br></p>
<br>
<p><br/></p>
<p>A reminder: Fourth Avenue (the street behind the Alumni and
Visitors Center) between Divarty Street and Inter-Garrison Road is
ONE WAY southbound. There are no plans to make the street two-way,
even during the construction work in the area. It&apos;s a safety issue
- the street is too narrow to safely accommodate two-way traffic
and parking.</p>
<p>Divarty Street is now open.</p>
<p>Inter-Garrison Road is closed from Sixth Avenue to the entrance
to parking lot 12. Fifth Avenue is closed from Inter-Garrison to
the entrance to parking lot 12. The VPA buildings are accessible
via parking lot 71. Parking lot 12 is accessible from A Street and
Divarty Street.</p>
<p>Our campus is under construction. Please be cautious around
construction areas. We invite you to view this <a href="http://cdo.csumb.edu/site/x4929.xml" rel="nofollow">short slide
show</a> created with yoursafety in mind.</p>
<p><br>
<br/></br></p>
<p><strong>Whistle-blowers wanted here - Daniel Ellsberg to speak
on importance of revealing government secrets</strong><br>
If any era cries out for government insiders to risk their careers
by exposing truths, that era is now, says a man who may be the
nation&apos;s best-known whistle-blower of all time. It was 1971 when
military analyst Daniel Ellsberg released the Pentagon Papers, a
secret study that revealed far more about prospects for the Vietnam
war effort than President Richard Nixon&apos;s administration wanted the
public to know. On Wednesday, Ellsberg will speak at CSU-Monterey
Bay . . . .<br>
-<em>Monterey Herald</em>, Nov. 27, 2007</br></br></p>
<p><strong>Alisal has the chemistry - student team wins &apos;titration&apos;
competition at CSUMB</strong><br>
Alisal High School students Miguel Zuala, Pedro Ramirez and Karina
Garcia, led by teacher Paul Quiggle, placed first in the first
Monterey Bay Titration Competition held at California State
University, Monterey Bay. The university&apos;s Division of Science and
Environmental Policy and the American Chemical Society sponsored
the event, held to celebrate National Chemistry Week.<br>
- <em>Salinas Californian</em>, Nov. 27, 2007</br></br></p>
<p><strong>Take time out for taiko - San Jose group to perform at
CSUMB&apos;s World Theater<br/></strong>San Jose Taiko will take the
stage at California State University, Monterey Bay&apos;s World Theater
on Dec. 6. And the group just may inspire audience members to
rediscover their own heritage. Musical director PJ Hirabayashi is a
third-generation Japanese American who realized that she wanted to
connect with her ethnic heritage the first time she saw a taiko
group perform in San Francisco.<br>
- <em>Salinas Californian</em>, Nov. 24, 2007</br></p>
<p><strong>Be Very Afraid - Pentagon Papers whistleblower visits
CSUMB, drawing frightening parallels between Vietnam and
Iraq<br/></strong>Daniel Ellsberg, who released top secret Defense
Department documents to the New York Times in 1971 and helped turn
public sentiment against the war in Vietnam, is a hero to some
Americans, a villain to others. When Ellsberg speaks at CSU
Monterey Bay on Wednesday, Nov. 28, he will draw some stark
parallels between the Vietnam era and today. But he says the
political &quot;crises&quot; he sees emerging from the Bush administration
are far more damaging to the country&apos;s future.<br>
- <em>Monterey County Weekly</em>, Nov. 21</br></p>
<p><strong>Critical Key to the Future - Literacy measures a
community&apos;s economic health and vitality<br/></strong>By Diane
Cordero de Noriega<br>
Why should we be worried about literacy? This is Monterey County.
Surely this is not a problem for us. The data tell a different
story. Among kindergartners, 46 percent begin school without the
necessary pre-academic skills. By the 11th grade, only 55 percent
score at the basic level or higher in English language arts, and
only 60 percent in math. Stated another way, between 40 and 45
percent of our students are below the basic level in English
language arts and math. Fifty-four percent of our high school
graduates entering college require remediation in writing.<br>
- <em>Monterey County Weekly</em>, Nov. 21, 2007</br></br></p>
<p><br>
For campus news, activities and events, please visit our <a href="http://www.csumb.edu/news%20" rel="nofollow">news website</a>.</br></p>
<fieldset class="fieldgroup group-attachments">
<legend>Attachments</legend>
<div class="field field-type-emvideo field-field-attach-video">
<div class="field-items">
<div class="field-item odd">
<div class="emvideo emvideo-video emvideo-"/>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</fieldset>
</br>




