---
title: dcmc mou 2007
date: November 10 2007
slug: dcmc-mou-2007
---




<span class="date">Posted on Nov 10, 2007    </span>
<h4>Students benefit from job opportunities</h4>
<p><br>
California State University, Monterey Bay and the Defense Manpower
Data Center have worked together in a variety of ways since 1996.
The two organizations recently agreed to continue the arrangement
for several more years.</br></p>
<p>The data center, located in the former Silas B. Hays hospital
building on the Seaside portion of Fort Ord, collects, archives,
and maintains manpower and personnel data, as well as financial
databases for the Department of Defense. In other words, it&apos;s the
personnel and payroll office for the U.S. military.</p>
<p>Over the years, the data center has provided more than 140 job
opportunities for CSUMB students from a variety of academic
programs. These positions have supported students in their studies,
provided professional experience and often resulted in career
employment with the center. The university students have provided
DMDC with valuable professional staff members.</p>
<p>In a memorandum of understanding signed recently, the data
center and university officials agreed to continue to cooperate on
educational, research and service goals, including the internship
program. Student interns help the center with computer support and
programming, data collection, transfer and storage, network
analysis and security of DoD technology.</p>
<p>One project students have worked on involves &quot;smart cards,&quot;
Defense Department identification cards that contain microprocessor
chips. One chip contains a DoD employee&apos;s secure digital
credentials, serving as a paperless voucher. Millions of the &quot;smart
cards&quot; have been issued.<br/></p>
<fieldset class="fieldgroup group-attachments">
<legend>Attachments</legend>
<div class="field field-type-emvideo field-field-attach-video">
<div class="field-items">
<div class="field-item odd">
<div class="emvideo emvideo-video emvideo-"/>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</fieldset>





