---
title: December 5 2007
date: December 5 2007
slug: december-5-2007
---




<span class="date">Posted on Dec 05, 2007    </span>
<p><strong>New &apos;U Stories&apos; now online<br/></strong>&#xA0;Each
month, the College of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences posts a
&apos;U Story&apos; on its website. Each features highlights of the creative
and socially aware professors, students, and programs in the
college. The latest U Stories feature the Day of the Dead
celebration and the musical methods of choral professor Paulette
Gissendanner. <a href="http://csumb.edu/site/x18671.xml" rel="nofollow">Check them out here</a>.</p>
<p><br>
<strong><em>Spotlight on Staff</em><br>
World Theater director is multi-talented<br/></br></strong>&#xA0;After
a lengthy hiatus from CSUMB, Joe Cardinalli recently returned to
the university as interim director of the World Theater. He brings
managerial skills to the position, but he&apos;s also a designer,
technical theater consultant, television field director and a
musician. His introduction to Fort Ord came during the 1960s when
he played keyboard in a Monterey rock band. His band often played
at Stilwell Hall, entertaining troops bound for Vietnam. In the
late &apos;60s, he earned a degree in theater arts from San Jos&#xE9; State,
then went on to a 33-year career with the city of San Jose in the
department of parks, recreation and neighborhood services. Before
retiring earlier this year, he was the department&apos;s deputy
director, responsible for managing about 1,400 employees, a $60
million operating budget and a $500 million capital budget. To read
more about Joe, <a href="spotlight-staff.html" rel="nofollow">click
here</a>.</br></p>
<p><strong><em>Spotlight on Alumni<br/></em>Crystal Costa: Ready
for prime time<br/></strong>&#xA0;Crystal Costa is on the air. A
2007 graduate, she currently reports for KJCT News 8 in Grand
Junction, Colo., and hopes to anchor one day. Getting to where she
is took hard work every step of the way, even though she didn&apos;t
always know where she was going. &quot;When I started college, I had no
idea what I wanted to do,&quot; says Crystal, who grew up in the Central
Valley and admits she came to CSUMB because she &quot;wanted to live at
the beach.&quot; She majored in Human Communication because &quot;my passion
is writing and being around people. I don&apos;t do math, science or
many other subjects well, so it was also a process of elimination.
I dabbled in everything; I took newspaper writing classes, magazine
writing, investigative journalism and even radio classes.&quot; When it
came time to choose a concentration, Crystal found the help she
needed from her adviser, Professor Juanita Darling. &quot;She sat me
down to really narrow my choices and decide what I should do as a
career. That&apos;s when I finally realized that news reporting is
perfect for me,&quot; says Crystal. To read more about Crystal, <a href="spotlight-alumni.html" rel="nofollow">click here</a>.</p>
<p><br>
<strong>The holiday season, CSUMB style<br>
UPD sponsors toy drive</br></strong><br>
&#xA0;The University Police Department is collecting toys for
underprivileged children in Monterey County that will be
distributed through local non-profit organizations. New, unwrapped
toys may be dropped off at the police department, 82-E. For
information, contact Lt. Earl Lawson at 582-3062.</br></br></p>
<p><strong>Don&apos;t forget the giving tree<br/></strong>&#xA0;It&apos;s
become an annual tradition. University Human Resources has set up a
&quot;giving tree&quot; in the lobby of Bldg. 23 on Divarty Street. This
year, UHR is partnering with the Mexican American Opportunity
Foundation&apos;s Migrant Families Program in Salinas. The program
recognizes the hardships faced by agricultural working families and
provides children and their families with comprehensive social and
health services. Employees can help bring holiday cheer to these
families by choosing an ornament from the giving tree. Each
ornament is labeled with the name and age of a child and what he or
she would like for a holiday gift. After purchasing the item,
participants are asked to bring the wrapped gift, along with the
ornament, to UHR by Dec. 14. For further information, call UHR at
582-3389.</p>
<p><strong>Tasteful houses sweeten party<br/></strong>&#xA0;As
Hansel and Gretel can attest, gingerbread houses, with their
candy-cane columns, gumdrop landscaping, peppermint pinwheel
decorations and icing trim, are practically irresistible. So it&apos;s
no surprise that these confectionary cottages - and other
structures - are the basis of a campus-wide competition now in its
fourth year. This year&apos;s competition, dubbed &quot;It&apos;s a Small World -
Campus Edition,&quot; will challenge each team to design and construct a
house with an international theme. Basic gingerbread house kits
will be provided and edible add-ons are allowed. The event will
take place in the University Center ballroom from 11:30 a.m. to
1:30 p.m. on Thursday, Dec. 13. On-lookers and cheering squads are
welcome. Finished houses will serve as table centerpieces at the
annual holiday party. The winner of the Best Use of Theme award
will be treated to a pizza party for up to 10 people courtesy of
Sodexho. To register a team, call Kerri Rivera in University Human
Resources at 582-3389 by Dec. 7.</p>
<p><br>
<strong>Light up the World<br/></strong>&#xA0;The annual faculty
and staff holiday party will be held on Friday, Dec. 14 from 6 to
10 p.m. in the University Center ballroom. Tickets are available at
the front desks of the University Center and the Alumni and
Visitors Center.</br></p>
<p><br>
<strong>Txt Msgs Alert U</strong><br>
<strong><em>Cell phones transmit safety alerts at
CSUMB<br/></em></strong>&#x2022; Cell phones - a convenient way to send
greetings to friends and family via text messages - have been
transformed into campus communications vehicles. At CSUMB, the
service is called - what else? - OTTERalert. They blast out
campus-wide security and emergency communication alarms - a service
that has been getting a lot of attention since the tragic shootings
at Virginia Tech.<br>
The campus community can rest assured that OTTERalert is for
emergency alerts only; those who sign up will not receive spam.
Privacy is protected, and only campus administrators and members of
the University Police Department can originate the messages. To
read more, <a href="index.html" rel="nofollow">click here</a>.</br></br></br></p>
<p><br/></p>
<p><br>
&#xA0;<strong>Thursday, Dec. 6</strong>: Osher Lifelong Learning
Institute&apos;s faculty research speaker series continues with a talk
by Professor Johanna Poethig, &quot;Creative Interventions in Public
Space/Public Mind,&quot; 11 a.m.-noon, Alumni and Visitors Center<br>
&#xA0;<strong>Thursday, Dec. 6</strong>: San Jose Taiko at World
Theater, 7:30 p.m. Box office: 582-4580<br>
&#xA0;<strong>Saturday, Dec. 8</strong>: Return of the Natives
needs volunteers to help with planting in Natividad Creek Park from
10 a.m. to 1 p.m. Information: watershed.csumb.edu/ron or call
Aaron Fox at 582-3686.</br></br></br></p>
<p><strong>Upcoming</strong><br>
&#xA0;<strong>Wednesday, Dec. 12</strong>: Teledramatic Arts and
Technology capstone festival, 6 p.m., World Theater<br>
&#xA0;<strong>Thursday, Dec. 13</strong>: Gingerbread house
building contest, 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m., University Center
ballroom<br>
&#xA0;<strong>Friday, Dec. 14</strong>: CSUMB&apos;s annual staff and
faculty holiday party, starts at 6 p.m., University Center
ballroom. Tickets are available at the University Center front desk
and the Alumni and Visitors Center<br>
&#xA0;<strong>Tuesday, Dec. 18</strong>: Liberal Studies capstone
festival, 9 a.m. to 2 p.m., University Center conference
rooms<br>
&#xA0;<strong>Tuesday, Dec. 18</strong>: Strategic Planning town
hall meeting, 3 to 5 p. m., Alumni and Visitors Center</br></br></br></br></br></p>
<p><strong>Ongoing</strong><br>
&#xA0;Exhibit of student art work in the Balfour/Brutzman Gallery
in VPA No. 71, open Thursdays 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., Fridays noon to 3
p.m.</br></p>
<p><br>
<br/></br></p>
<p><br>
&#xA0;</br></p>
<p><br/></p>
<p>&#xA0;A reminder: Fourth Avenue (the street behind the Alumni
and Visitors Center) between Divarty Street and Inter-Garrison Road
is ONE WAY southbound. There are no plans to make the street
two-way, even during the construction work in the area. It&apos;s a
safety issue - the street is too narrow to safely accommodate
two-way traffic and parking.</p>
<p>&#xA0;Divarty Street is now open.</p>
<p>&#xA0;Inter-Garrison Road is closed from Sixth Avenue to the
entrance to parking lot 12. Fifth Avenue is closed from
Inter-Garrison to the entrance to parking lot 12. The VPA buildings
are accessible via parking lot 71. Parking lot 12 is accessible
from A Street and Divarty Street.</p>
<p>&#xA0;Our campus is under construction. Please be cautious
around construction areas. We invite you to view this <a href="http://cdo.csumb.edu/site/x4929.xml%20" rel="nofollow">short slide
show</a> created with yoursafety in mind.<br/></p>
<p><br>
<br/></br></p>
<p><strong>CSUMB library receives $1 million - It&apos;s from David
&amp; Lucile Packard Foundation</strong><br>
A landmark library under construction at California State
University, Monterey Bay has received a $1 million grant from the
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, CSUMB officials announced.
&quot;This leadership gift is a major vote of confidence in the
university,&quot; CSUMB President Dianne Harrison said Friday.<br>
- <em>Salinas Californian</em>, Dec. 3, 2007</br></br></p>
<p><strong>CSUMB student gets $270 fine, probation - No contest in
fracas at rally<br/></strong>A Salinas man hailed by some for
exercising free speech but arrested and charged with disturbing the
peace will have to pay a $270 fine and serve three years probation.
Alberto Tovar, 22, wasn&apos;t present Friday in Superior Court, but
entered a no contest plea through his attorney as part of an
agreement reached with prosecutors.<br>
- <em>Monterey Herald</em>, Dec. 1, 2007</br></p>
<p><strong>Government abuse &apos;grim,&apos; Ellsberg says - Daniel
Ellsberg, who leaked the Pentagon Papers in 1971 to The New York
Times, spoke Wednesday night at California State University,
Monterey Bay<br/></strong>Politicians and civil servants too
scared to go public about government wrongdoing could result in a
U.S. attack on Iran and continued violations of individual civil
rights, a social activist warned Wednesday evening. Speaking before
a crowded auditorium at California State University, Monterey Bay&apos;s
World Theater, former RAND Corp. military analyst Daniel Ellsberg
recalled the fallout from his release of the Pentagon Papers in
1971, one of the most important leaks of classified information
during the Vietnam War.<br>
- <em>Salinas Californian</em>, Nov. 29, 2007</br></p>
<p><strong>Daniel Ellsberg speaks to a full house at
CSUMB<br/></strong>Daniel Ellsberg is famous for leaking
classified Pentagon papers to the New York Times back in 1971, and
on Wednesday night people on the Central Coast got a rare chance to
hear his story first-hand. Ellsberg spoke to a full house at
California State University, Monterey Bay, and as an early opponent
to the Iraq war, he&apos;s using his own story as a launching pad, to
urge others to take a chance and to make a difference. Ellsberg was
arrested and put on trial following his leak of the Pentagon
papers, but the charges were later dropped because of so-called
&quot;improper government conduct.&quot;<br>
- <em>KION-46</em>, Nov. 28, 2007</br></p>
<p><strong>At the Heart of the Arts - Amalia
Mesa-Bains<br/></strong>Altars - everybody has them. A space set
aside for objects of personal significance. It could be the corner
of a desk in your office or the corner of a room in your home.
Thirty-five years ago, Dr. Amalia Mesa-Bains had another idea for
altars: use the design as a format for artistic expression. Today,
her altar impressions are displayed in galleries and museums across
Mexico, Europe and the U.S. - including the Smithsonian. As the
first chair of the Department of Visual and Public Art at CSUMB,
she is highly regarded as an independent artist and cultural
critic.<br>
- <em>Monterey County Magazine</em>, Winter 2007</br></p>
<p><br>
For campus news, activities and events, please visit our <a href="http://www.csumb.edu/news%20" rel="nofollow">news website</a>.</br></p>
<fieldset class="fieldgroup group-attachments">
<legend>Attachments</legend>
<div class="field field-type-emvideo field-field-attach-video">
<div class="field-items">
<div class="field-item odd">
<div class="emvideo emvideo-video emvideo-"/>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</fieldset>





