---
title: November 21 2007
date: November 20 2007
slug: november-21-2007
---




<span class="date">Posted on Nov 20, 2007    </span>
<p><strong>CSUMB hosts chemistry competition</strong><br>
&#x2022; A team from Alisal High School placed first in the recent
Monterey Bay Titration Competition sponsored by the Division of
Science and Environmental Policy and the American Chemical Society
(ACS) and hosted by CSUMB&apos;s Science Club. The competition was held
to celebrate National Chemistry Week.</br></p>
<p>More than 50 students from Alisal, Gonzales, Monterey and
Seaside high schools as well as CSUMB competed in the event, in
which titration skills were used to determine the concentration of
acetic acid in vinegar. CSUMB finished second.</p>
<p>All participants were treated to lunch and were entered into a
raffle for an iPod, a beach towel of the periodic table and other
items donated by the ACS.</p>
<p>CSUMB plans to make the competition an annual event.</p>
<p>From left: Vanessa Robinson, Louie Okamoto and Garret Thomas
compete for CSUMB</p>
<p><br>
<strong>CSUMB participates in national &apos;Focus the Nation&apos;
event<br/></strong>&#x2022; Professor Dan Fernandez and Associated
Students Environmental Senator Mary Berube are planning a daylong
sustainability conference on campus for Jan. 31as part of the
&quot;Focus the Nation&quot; campaign. Focus the Nation is coordinating teams
of faculty and students at over 1,000 schools to collaboratively
engage in a nationwide, interdisciplinary discussion about global
warming solutions for America. The intent is to focus the growing
concern in the country about global warming, and to create a
serious, sustained and truly national discussion about clean energy
solutions, linking students and citizens directy with our political
leaders. Local elected officials have been invited to join the
campus and the community at this event. To learn more, <a href="http://www.focusthenation.org" rel="nofollow">click here</a>.</br></p>
<p><strong>On the RISE<br/></strong>&#x2022; The American Honda
Foundation, a non-profit philanthropic organization headquartered
in Torrance, has made a $22,000 pledge to support the Recruitment
in Science Education Program, which encourages underrepresented
high school students from Marina and Salinas to expand their
interest and skills in science and provides the tools and
inspiration to attend college. Thanks to this generous support, the
RISE program will continue to serve local high school students with
a mission of enhancing diviersity in the sciences.The foundation
makes grants to worthy non-profit causes, programs and
organizations in the areas of youth education and scientific
education. Since its inception, it has provided more than $20
million in grants. To learn more about RISE, <a href="http://rise.csumb.edu/%20" rel="nofollow">click here</a>.</p>
<p><br>
<strong>Students provide Thanksgiving dinner for 60
families</strong><br>
&#x2022; As part of Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week, CSUMB&apos;s
Student Leadership in Service Learning team organized a meal points
collection drive. Meal-point dollars donated by students will
provide Thanksgiving dinners for 60 families in collaboration with
the Alisal Community Healthy Start Family Resource Center and
Sodexho. On Monday, students sorted bulk food into family-size
portions, then<br>
packed and delivered the bags. Each bag contained flour, sugar,
canned goods, beans, rice and tortillas. Each family also received
a turkey. This is the seventh year CSUMB students have provided
Thanksgiving dinners to members of the community.</br></br></br></p>
<p><strong>Inter-Garrison Road closed for construction
work<br/></strong>&#x2022; Underground hot water lines continue to be
installed to distribute heat to campus buildings. When the work is
finished, dozens of old boilers will be replaced by two new ones
located in the Central Plant that is currently under construction
next to the VPA buildings. This will result in energy savings for
the campus. The installation work along Divarty Street has been
completed and the street is now open. Work crews have moved to
Inter-Garrison Road, starting at the intersection with Fifth
Avenue. Inter-Garrison is currently closed from Sixth Avenue to the
entrance to parking lot 12. Work will continue west on
Inter-Garrison to Gen. Jim Moore Boulevard. Please follow the signs
and look for updates as the work progresses.</p>
<p><strong>Truths worth telling</strong><br>
<strong><em>Pentagon Papers whistleblower Daniel Ellsberg visits
campus Nov. 28<br/></em></strong>&#x2022; The President&apos;s Speakers Series
concludes this semester&apos;s presentations with a Nov. 28 visit by Dr.
Daniel Ellsberg, the RAND[Image:103007_112214_1.png] Corp. analyst
who, in 1971, leaked the classified Pentagon Papers to the New York
Times. The documents revealed the U.S. government had engaged in a
pattern of deceiving the public about the number of Vietnam War
casualties and the nation&apos;s ability to win the war. And they
instantly validated the antiwar protest movement. He&apos;ll be talking
about his book, &quot;Secrets: A Memoir of Vietnam and the Pentagon
Papers,&quot; copies of which will be available for sale. To reserve a
seat for the free event, <a href="http://csumb.edu/site/x19928.xml" rel="nofollow">click here</a>. To read more about Dr. Ellsberg,
<a href="truths-worth-telling.html" rel="nofollow">click here</a>.
The lecture will be broadcast on campus cable channel 71.</br></p>
<p><br>
<strong>Txt Msgs Alert U</strong><br>
<strong><em>Cell phones transmit safety alerts at
CSUMB<br/></em></strong>&#x2022; Cell phones - a convenient way to send
greetings to friends and family via text messages - have been
transformed into campus communications vehicles. At CSUMB, the
service is called - what else? - OTTERalert. They blast out
campus-wide security and emergency communication alarms - a service
that has been getting a lot of attention since the tragic shootings
at Virginia Tech.<br>
The campus community can rest assured that OTTERalert is for
emergency alerts only; those who sign up will not receive spam.
Privacy is protected, and only campus administrators and members of
the University Police Department can originate the messages. To
read more, <a href="index.html" rel="nofollow">click here</a>.</br></br></br></p>
<p><br/></p>
<p><strong>Wednesday, Nov. 28</strong>: The President&apos;s Speaker
Series concludes with a talk by Daniel Ellsberg, 7 p.m., World
Theater. Free, but reservations are encouraged and can be made by
calling the World Theater at 582-4580.</p>
<p><strong>Upcoming<br/></strong>&#x2022; <strong>Sunday, Dec.
2</strong>: Winter Concert put on by the Music and Performing Arts
Department, free, 3-5 p.m., World Theater<br>
&#x2022; <strong>Thursday, Dec. 6</strong>: Osher Lifelong Learning
Institute&apos;s faculty research speaker series continues with a talk
by Professor Johanna Poethig, &quot;Creative Interventions in Public
Space/Public Mind,&quot; 11 a.m.-noon, Alumni and Visitors Center<br>
&#x2022; <strong>Saturday, Dec. 8</strong>: Volunteers are needed to plant
natives in Natividad Creek Park from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. Information:
watershed.csumb.edu/ron</br></br></p>
<p><strong>ONGOING</strong><br>
&#x2022; Through Nov. 26: Works by students in VPA 347 Chicana/o Black Art
taught by Dr. Amalia Mesa-Bains and Professor Stephanie A. Johnson
is on display in the library. Based on the Spanish Castas paintings
of the 17th and 18th centuries which categorized the mestizaje or
&quot;mixed race&quot; people into socially stratified positions, the
students&apos; &quot;remix&quot; focuses upon narratives of familial legacy,
ancestral exploration, and personal cross-cultural negotiation.
Using the original paintings as a background with strategic
alteration and addition of elements, these modern pieces counter
the divisions, legal inequities, and fears promoted by the
historical Castas paintings. The students developed their own
narratives and reflections of hope in the new Castas
images.<br/></br></p>
<p><br>
<br/></br></p>
<p>The fall issue of Campus Chronicles is now available&#xA0;
<a href="university-magazine-newsletters/campus-chronicles.html" rel="nofollow">online</a>. Read about:</p>
<p>&#x2022; Marian Krause makes CSUMB&apos;s largest single-family gift in
history<br>
&#x2022; Library to usher in new era of learning<br>
&#x2022; Community provides major support for the campus<br>
&#x2022; Dedication to students makes a difference<br>
&#x2022; CSUMB receives prestigious McNair scholars grant<br>
&#x2022; CSUMB helps migrant students attain college dream<br>
&#x2022; School&apos;s never out for lifelong learners<br/></br></br></br></br></br></br></p>
<p><br>
&#xA0;</br></p>
<p><br/></p>
<p>&#x2022; A reminder: Fourth Avenue (the street behind the Alumni and
Visitors Center) between Divarty Street and Inter-Garrison Road is
ONE WAY southbound. There are no plans to make the street two-way,
even during the construction work in the area. It&apos;s a safety issue
- the street is too narrow to safely accommodate two-way traffic
and parking.</p>
<p>&#x2022; Divarty Street is now open.</p>
<p>&#x2022; Inter-Garrison Road is closed from Sixth Avenue to the
entrance to parking lot 12. Fifth Avenue is closed from
Inter-Garrison to the entrance to parking lot 12. The VPA buildings
are accessible via parking lot 71. Parking lot 12 is accessible
from A Street and Divarty Street.</p>
<p>&#x2022; Our campus is under construction. Please be cautious around
construction areas. We invite you to view this <a href="http://cdo.csumb.edu/site/x4929.xml%20" rel="nofollow">short slide
show</a> created with yoursafety in mind.<br/></p>
<p><br>
<br/></br></p>
<p><strong>Name dropper</strong><br>
Michael W. Mahan has joined CSU-Monterey Bay as executive director
of development. He will oversee the university&apos;s fundraising
efforts and alumni relations. Mahan joins the campus from the U.S.
Military Academy at West Point, where he had been the chief
fundraising executive since 1995.<br>
- <em>Monterey Herald</em>, Nov. 19, 2007</br></br></p>
<p><strong>OTTERalert gets tested<br/></strong>Cal State Monterey
Bay is making sure students are well informed in case of an
emergency. The university tested out its emergency response system
by sending out text messages to students and staff who have signed
up. After the tragic school shooting at Virginia Tech, CSUMB is
stepping up its policies to make sure students know what&apos;s going on
in case of an emergency.<br>
<em>KION-46</em>, 5 p.m. broadcast, Nov. 14, 2007</br></p>
<p><strong>Faces of the Homeless</strong><br>
Students in the university&apos;s Service Learning program hosted a
panel discussion with members of the Soledad Street community to
commemorate National Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week.<br>
<em>KSMS-67</em>, 11 p.m. broadcast, Nov. 14, 2007</br></br></p>
<p><strong>Shantytown builds awareness - CSUMB students shed light
on homelessness</strong><br>
A group of students at California State University, Monterey Bay
will camp out at the school this week to bring attention to
homelessness. A &quot;shantytown&quot; was set up Wednesday in the
university&apos;s Main Quad to illustrate living conditions and
statistics relevant to homelessness, poverty and inadequate housing
in Monterey County. The display is part of CSUMB&apos;s week of
activities to commemorate National Hunger and Homelessness
Awareness Week, which began Tuesday and runs through Monday.<br>
- <em>Salinas Californian</em>, Nov. 15, 2007</br></br></p>
<p><br>
For campus news, activities and events, please visit our <a href="http://www.csumb.edu/news%20" rel="nofollow">news website</a>.</br></p>
<fieldset class="fieldgroup group-attachments">
<legend>Attachments</legend>
<div class="field field-type-emvideo field-field-attach-video">
<div class="field-items">
<div class="field-item odd">
<div class="emvideo emvideo-video emvideo-"/>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</fieldset>





