---
title: AVP Hired
date: October 23 2007
slug: avp-hired
---




<span class="date">Posted on Oct 23, 2007    </span>
<p>Tony Boles has joined California State University, Monterey Bay
as associate vice president of Campus Development and
Operations.</p>
<p>He will oversee campus master planning and building space
management, all campus design and construction services,
environmental protection and facilities maintenance.</p>
<p>&quot; I see coming to the CSU MB as a great opportunity to be part
of the growth and development of a new and exciting campus in one
of the most beautiful places in the world,&quot; Mr. Boles said.</p>
<p>He brings 25 years experience in all phases of architectural
design work, planning and construction project development for a
wide range of private- and public-sector facilities. He comes from
Gafcon Construction and Project Management, where he managed the
development of a $1.1 billion, 1,700-acre park project in
Irvine.</p>
<p>Earlier, he was senior deputy director/county architect for the
County of San Diego, where he managed the capital improvement and
master planning programs. He also served as associate director and
construction administrator at San Diego State University, where he
oversaw more than $50 million in campus improvement projects.</p>
<p>Mr. Boles served in the U. S. Navy&apos;s Civil Engineer Corps, where
he directed major construction projects throughout the world. He
completed his Navy career as the base closure manager for the
Marine Corps air stations in El Toro and Tustin.</p>
<p>He holds bachelor&apos;s and master&apos;s degrees in architecture from
Cal Poly Pomona and also earned a master&apos;s degree in city and
regional planning from San Diego State University. He is a
registered architect in California.</p>
<p>Mr. Boles joined the university on Oct. 18. He replaces Niraj
Dangoria, who left CSUMB earlier this year to become assistant
dean, facilities planning and management, at Stanford
University.</p>
<fieldset class="fieldgroup group-attachments">
<legend>Attachments</legend>
<div class="field field-type-emvideo field-field-attach-video">
<div class="field-items">
<div class="field-item odd">
<div class="emvideo emvideo-video emvideo-"/>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</fieldset>





