---
title: Top 25 film
date: December 7 2007
slug: top-25-film
---




<span class="date">Posted on Dec 07, 2007    </span>
<h4>TAT students&apos; work makes Apple&apos;s top-25 list</h4>
<p>CSUMB&apos;s top entry in this year&apos;s Apple Computer Insomnia Film
Festival is filled with all the creativity sleep-deprived students
can muster.</p>
<p>Only three minutes long and made in a single 24-hour period, the
entry &#x2013;called Smile &#x2013;is about a washed-up clown who goes about his
day with the haunting memories of his past.</p>
<p>Apple, maker of computers and editing software used in
filmmaking, posted a top-secret list of elements &#x2013; special props,
dialogue, settings, camera techniques &#x2013; online on a Saturday in
October. Each team had to choose at least three of the 10 elements
to include in its movie. Then, the team had to write, cast, shoot,
edit, score and upload its short masterpiece within 24 hours.</p>
<p>Once the films were posted online, the public was invited to
watch and rate their favorites. The 25 entries with the highest
rating on Nov. 9 were screened by industry professionals including
Barry Sonnenfeld (Men in Black), and James Mangold (Girl,
Interrupted, Walk the Line). The pros chose one of the award
winners; the public chose one and tech folks chose one. The winners
won a treasure trove of Apple goodies.</p>
<p>Four groups from CSUMB were among the 3,000 high school and
college teams to enter. Team Pup and Suds&#x2013; Dane Bergerson, Cody
Campbell, Adam Newacheck, Haley Pikhart and Derek Tekus &#x2013;placed
21st, the best finish for an Otter team.</p>
<p>They contest rules promised them a showing in a nearby Apple
store, but that hasn&apos;t yet been arranged. Stay tuned.</p>
<p>View the film here: <a href="http://edcommunity.apple.com/insomnia_fall07/collection.php?collectionID=5" rel="nofollow">http://edcommunity.apple.com/insomnia_fall07/collection.php?collectionID=5</a></p>
<p><br/></p>
<fieldset class="fieldgroup group-attachments">
<legend>Attachments</legend>
<div class="field field-type-emvideo field-field-attach-video">
<div class="field-items">
<div class="field-item odd">
<div class="emvideo emvideo-video emvideo-"/>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</fieldset>





