---
title: Study Abroad 0708
date: November 21 2007
slug: study-abroad-0708
---




<span class="date">Posted on Nov 21, 2007    </span>
<p>After a rigorous application process, seventeen students from
California State University, Monterey Bay have been chosen to study
abroad for an academic year, through the university&apos;s Office of
International Programs.</p>
<p>They are among nearly 600 students throughout the California
State University system selected to study in 19 countries. They
will be immersed in the academic and living environments in their
host countries for a year.<br>
<br>
While Spain and Germany are the most popular choices among CSUMB
students, some are studying in Sweden, France, and South Africa.
Most of them have studied the language of the host country before
departure.</br></br></p>
<p>The program started in 1963 and has offered thousands of
students a chance to learn about other cultures.</p>
<p>CSUMB students studying abroad this year include:<br>
&#x2022; Jorge Martinez, a business major from Long Beach; Omar Mendoza, a
World Languages and Cultures major from Salinas; David Garcia, a
health science major from Santa Ana; and Antonio Romero, a business
major from Woodland, are all studying in Spain.<br>
&#x2022; Gilbert Lopez, a political science major from Los Angeles; Sara
Frazer, a business major from Redondo Beach; and Casey Poma, a film
major from Ukiah, are studying in Germany.<br>
&#x2022; Tristan Mansson-Perrone, a radio/television major from Arcata, is
studying in Sweden<br>
&#x2022; Simone Thompkins, an English major from Anaheim, is studying in
France.<br>
&#x2022; Michaela Teel, a liberal studies major from Healdsburg; and Emily
Zanardi, a liberal studies major from Penngrove, are studying in
the Denmark.<br>
&#x2022; Liliana Castrellon, an integrated studies major from San
Fernando; and Sarah Ford, a liberal studies major from Grass
Valley, are studying in Mexico.<br>
&#x2022; Kiigan Snaer, a global studies major from Vista, is studying in
South Africa.<br>
&#x2022; Denise Sanchez, a business major from Gold Run, and Michelle
Sandersfeld, an earth sciences major from Mira Loma. are studying
in Australia.<br>
&#x2022; Lisa Melendy, an integrated studies major from Soquel, is
studying in New Zealand.</br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></p>
<p>Students pay the same fees and are eligible for the same
financial aid they would qualify for at CSUMB. For more information
on the California State University&apos;s International Programs, visit
<a href="http://www.calstate.edu/ip" rel="nofollow">www.calstate.edu/ip</a><br/></p>
<fieldset class="fieldgroup group-attachments">
<legend>Attachments</legend>
<div class="field field-type-emvideo field-field-attach-video">
<div class="field-items">
<div class="field-item odd">
<div class="emvideo emvideo-video emvideo-"/>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</fieldset>





