---
title: October 31 2007
date: October 31 2007
slug: october-31-2007
---




<span class="date">Posted on Oct 31, 2007    </span>
<p><strong>CSUMB receives McNair Scholars
grant&#xA0;<br/></strong>- The U.S. Department of Education has
awarded CSUMB nearly $1 million in grant money to help students
from underrepresented backgrounds prepare for doctoral studies,
President Dianne F. Harrison has announced. Funded through the
Ronald E. McNair Postbaccalaureate Achievement Program, the grant
will support 25 students each year for four years as they pursue
research and other scholarly activities. The goal of the program,
named for the African-American astronaut and scientist who died in
the Challenger disaster in 1984, is to increase the number of
underrepresented, low income and first-generation college students
who earn doctoral degrees. To read more, <a href="csumb-receives-mcnair-scholars-grant.html" rel="nofollow">click
here</a>.</p>
<p><strong>DAY OF THE DEAD AT CSUMB</strong>&#xA0;<br>
- The School of World Languages and Cultures has transformed its
classes and the lobby of Building 49 into Cultural Day of the Dead
altars. The main altars are dedicated to four extraordinary
artists: Michelangelo Antonioni (1912-2007), Alvin Batiste
(1932-2007), Ingmar Bergman (1918-2007) and Luciano Pavarotti
(1935-2007). Friends and&#xA0; family members are also honored. The
CSUMB community is invited to visit the exhibition, which has been
prepared by Dr. Maria Zielina and students from the Spanish
program.&#xA0;<br>
<br>
- VPA invites the campus to celebrate Day of the Dead from 6 to 9
p.m. Thursday, Nov. 1 at the University Center ballroom. The
celebration will include a dance performance, colorful displays,
live music, traditional snacks, reflection, and commemoration.
Participants can gather at 5:30 p.m. at the Music Hall, then Aztec
dancers and giants puppets will lead a candlelight procession to
the University Center for the program. For more information,
<a href="http://vpa.csumb.edu/dead/index.htm" rel="nofollow">click
here</a>.&#xA0;<br>
<br>
- Also on Thursday, students in VPA 306/Digital Public Art will
present INVOKE: A Project to Invite Memory and Forgiveness. The
project features a series of site-specific art interventions
responding to memory and forgiveness, which will result in the
reservation and repurposing of public spaces throughout
campus.&#xA0; Ephemeral altars will be created in parking spaces
located on the VPA lot, the TAT lot and the University Center lot
from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m.</br></br></br></br></br></p>
<p><strong>Truths worth telling<br>
<em>Pentagon Papers whistleblower Daniel Ellsberg visits campus
Nov. 28</em></br></strong><br>
- The President&apos;s Speakers Series concludes this semester&apos;s
presentations with a Nov. 28 visit by Dr. Daniel Ellsberg, the RAND
Corp. analyst who, in 1971, leaked the classified Pentagon Papers
to the New York Times. The documents revealed the U.S. government
had engaged in a pattern of deceiving the public about the number
of Vietnam War casualties and the nation&apos;s ability to win the war.
And they instantly validated the antiwar protest movement. He&apos;ll be
talking about his book, &quot;Secrets: A Memoir of Vietnam and the
Pentagon Papers,&quot; copies of which will be available for sale. To
reserve a seat for the free event, <a href="http://csumb.edu/site/x19928.xml" rel="nofollow">click here</a>.
To read more about Dr. Ellsberg, <a href="truths-worth-telling.html" rel="nofollow">click here</a>.</br></p>
<p><strong>Revisiting Vietnam&#xA0;- A new book by Professor David
Anderson</strong>&#xA0;<br>
- Over 30 years after the withdrawal of American forces from
Southeast Asia, echoes from the Vietnam War still reverberate in
21st-century cultural and political discourse. As the United States
increasingly entangles itself in conflicts abroad, policymakers and
journalists hearken back to the lessons learned there, many
promising that &quot;This is not Vietnam&quot; and others insisting that we
are repeating the same mistakes three decades later. The memories
of the Vietnam War still haunt the American consciousness and new
analyses are essential to understanding and navigating contemporary
political and military motives and maneuvers in Afghanistan and
Iraq. The War That Never Ends: New Perspectives on the Vietnam War
is a new collection of essays that sheds fresh light on the
conflict. Editors David L. Anderson and John Ernst unite America&apos;s
leading Vietnam War scholars to re-examine old interpretations and
offer new insights on the motives, execution, and aftermath of the
conflict. Contributors tackle the issues of the relationship
between America and Vietnam, the military experiences of U.S.
soldiers, the delineation of allies and enemies, and examine the
war&apos;s influence on Congress, the media, and the nation as a whole.
The book was released Oct. 12 in Lexington, Ky., as part of a
conference on the Vietnam War. It&apos;s published by the University
Press of Kentucky.</br></p>
<p><strong>Txt Msgs Alert U Cell phones transmit safety alerts at
CSUMB</strong><br>
Cell phones&#xA0;- a convenient way to send greetings to friends
and family via text messages&#xA0;- have been transformed into
campus communications vehicles. At CSUMB, the service is
called&#xA0;- what else?&#xA0;- OTTERalert. They blast out
campus-wide security and emergency communication alarms&#xA0;- a
service that has been getting a lot of attention since the tragic
shootings at Virginia Tech. The campus community can rest assured
that OTTERalert is for emergency alerts only; those who sign up
will not receive spam. Privacy is protected, and only campus
administrators and members of the University Police Department can
originate the messages. To read more, <a href="index.html" rel="nofollow">click here</a>.</br></p>
<p>&#xA0;<strong>&apos;BEACON&apos; 2007&#xA0;<br/></strong>- Professor
Johanna Poethig has completed another public art project. She and
Brian Laczko of Oakland designed twin pillars for Gleason Park in
Stockton, which feature glass-covered portals that enclose historic
photos of original inhabitants of the city&apos;s Little Manila
community. The pillars are painted with culturally symbolic plum
red and are topped by gold flames in a traditionally stylized
Filipino design. The gateway completes the park element of a larger
redevelopment project for the neighborhood.</p>
<p>&#xA0;<br>
- <strong>Thursday, Nov. 1</strong>: Day of the Dead celebration, 6
p.m., in the University Center ballroom.<br>
-&#xA0;Thursday, Nov. 1-Saturday, Nov. 3: The Good Woman, a play by
Bertolt Brecht, presented by the Department of Music and Performing
Arts, 8 p.m., in the Meeting House. Free.&#xA0;<br>
- <strong>Friday, Nov. 2</strong>: Volleyball vs. CSU Stanislaus, 7
p.m., Otter Sports Center&#xA0;<br>
- <strong>Saturday, Nov. 3</strong>: Volleyball vs. Chico State, 7
p.m., Otter Sports Center<br>
-&#xA0;<strong>Saturday, Nov. 3</strong>: Osher Lifelong Learning
Institute lecture by Dr. Rikk Kvitek, 10-11 a.m., Alumni &amp;
Visitors Center</br></br></br></br></br></p>
<p><strong>UPCOMING</strong><br>
-<strong>Wednesday, Nov. 7</strong>: Open house informational
session for the Master of Public Policy program, 6-7:30 p.m.,
Alumni and Visitors Center&#xA0;<br>
- <strong>Thursday, Nov. 8</strong>: Strategic planning town hall
meeting, noon-2 p.m., University Center ballroom&#xA0;<br>
- <strong>Thursday, Nov.8- Saturday, Nov.10</strong>: The Good
Woman, a play by Bertolt Brecht, presented by the Department of
Music and Performing Arts, 8 p.m., in the Meeting House. Free.</br></br></br></p>
<p><strong>ONGOING<br/></strong>-&#xA0;<strong>Through Nov.
9</strong>: &apos;Guardians,&apos; works by students in the painting and
mural class, and &apos;Walking Through,&apos; pieces by sculpture students,
are on display in the Balfour/Brutzman Gallery in Bldg. 71. In
&apos;Guardians,&apos; students created self-portraits to express their
thoughts about what they might guard or protect. The pieces in
&apos;Walking Through&apos; are made of wire; pliers were used to bend and
shape the material into the form of shoes. Hours are Monday through
Thursday, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., Friday noon to 3 p.m.<br>
&#xA0;- <strong>Through Nov. 26</strong>: Works by students in VPA
347 Chicana/o Black Art taught by Dr. Amalia Mesa-Bains and
Professor Stephanie A. Johnson is on display in the library. Based
on the Spanish Castas paintings of the 17th and 18th centuries
which categorized the mestizaje or &quot;mixed race&quot; people into
socially stratified positions, the students&apos; &quot;remix&quot; focuses upon
narratives of familial legacy, ancestral exploration, and personal
cross-cultural negotiation. Using the original paintings as a
background with strategic alteration and addition of elements,
these modern pieces counter the divisions, legal inequities, and
fears promoted by the historical Castas paintings. The students
developed their own narratives and reflections of hope in the new
Castas images.</br></p>
<p><strong>Men&apos;s soccer team earns CSUMB&apos;s first-ever conference
playoff spot</strong>&#xA0;<br>
- In their first year of full NCAA Division II eligibility, CSUMB
has qualified for the California Collegiate Athletic Association
men&apos;s soccer championship. The Otters clinched the university&apos;s
first-ever CCAA post-season berth with a 2-2 tie at Cal State-Los
Angeles last Sunday. The Otters, who enter the tournament as the
No. 4 seed with a 6-5-3 conference record (9-7-3 overall) will face
No. 2 seed Cal State-Dominguez Hills Friday night at Toro Stadium
in Carson. In the other semifinal, top-seeded Sonoma State (17-2-1,
14-0 CCAA) will face No. 3 seed Cal State-L.A. The championship
game will be played Sunday afternoon.</br></p>
<p>&#xA0;<br>
- A reminder: Fourth Avenue (the street behind the Alumni and
Visitors Center) between Divarty Street and Inter-Garrison Road is
ONE WAY southbound. There are no plans to make the street two-way,
even during the construction work in the area. It&apos;s a safety
issue&#xA0;- the street is too narrow to safely accommodate two-way
traffic and parking.&#xA0;<br>
- Third Avenue is closed to through traffic from Inter-Garrison
Road to Divarty Street while five wooden structures along Third are
coming down. Access to the Outdoor Recreation Center, the Child
Development Center and parking lot 84 will be available only from
Inter-Garrison. The work is expected to be completed in late
October.&#xA0;<br>
- Fifth Avenue is closed to traffic.&#xA0;<br>
- Divarty Street between Fourth Avenue and Gen. Jim Moore Boulevard
is open to westbound traffic only. Divarty remains closed from
Fourth east to the site of the new library. Traffic traveling north
on Engineer Lane will be able to access the Human Resources
Building, and Parking Lots 21 and 23. Traffic can access the lots
by turning off Gen. Jim Moore onto the small road just south of
Divarty Street, adjacent to the Veterans Clinic. This road connects
to Engineer Lane and to the entrance to Parking Lot 23. Parking Lot
21 will be accessed via a newly constructed entrance at the
southwest corner of Parking Lot 23.<br>
- Our campus is under construction. Please be cautious around
construction areas.&#xA0; We invite you to view&#xA0;this
short&#xA0;<a title="Slide Show" href="http://cdo.csumb.edu/site/x4929.xml" rel="nofollow">slide show</a>
created with your safety in mind.&#xA0;&#xA0;</br></br></br></br></br></p>
<p>&#xA0;</p>
<p><strong>Leading an Otter run to the playoffs&#xA0;- CSUMB
captains lead Otters to best season</strong><br>
Earlier this season, senior midfielder Kyle Satow became
CSU-Monterey Bay&apos;s all-time career goal scorer in men&apos;s soccer.
While obviously proud of the accomplishment, Satow said he would
give it up in a heartbeat for a spot in the playoffs. Fellow senior
Jake True rarely sees his name in the newspapers or the stat box. A
defender, True has but one assist this season. Likewise, senior
defender Steven Masters has only one assist. On paper, this trio
only stands out because of Satow&apos;s stats. In reality, these three
captains are the backbone of the team and the sole reason, says
CSUMB coach Artie Cairel, why the Otters are one tie away from
becoming the first CSUMB athletic program to qualify for the
playoffs.&#xA0;<br>
- <em>Monterey Herald</em>, Oct. 26, 2007</br></br></p>
<p><strong>Photographer chronicles race and gender</strong><br>
For internationally celebrated photographer Carrie Mae Weems, art
is truly a reflection of life. And that is what she hopes to teach
students at CSU-Monterey Bay. . . . Weems spoke to a packed
audience late Wednesday at the World Theater to open the school&apos;s
African American Legacy Project.&#xA0;<br>
- <em>Monterey Herald</em>, Oct. 26, 2007</br></br></p>
<p><strong>Garden of Hope&#xA0;- Effort brightens Salinas&apos;
Chinatown</strong><br>
On a plastic mason&apos;s pan, builder Chris Axton pushes water and clay
back and forth with a flat hoe. . . Axton is cooking up cob, a
construction material similar to adobe that has been used for
centuries around the world. It will be used to complete two straw
benches at the Community Garden before its first anniversary
celebration. On Saturday, Soledad Street will toast the first year
of Chinatown&apos;s greenest spot . . . in the heart of a neighborhood
known for illicit activities, the garden has become a focal point
for the renewal of Chinatown. CSU-Monterey Bay . . . has teamed up
with landowners and residents to revamp the area and improve its
image.&#xA0;<br>
-- <em>Monterey Herald</em>, Oct. 24, 2007</br></br></p>
<p>For campus news, activities and events, please visit our
<a title="news" href="http://www.csumb.edu/news" rel="nofollow">news</a> website.</p>
<fieldset class="fieldgroup group-attachments">
<legend>Attachments</legend>
<div class="field field-type-emvideo field-field-attach-video">
<div class="field-items">
<div class="field-item odd">
<div class="emvideo emvideo-video emvideo-"/>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</fieldset>





