---
title: MPP 2007
date: October 23 2007
slug: mpp-2007
---




<span class="date">Posted on Oct 23, 2007    </span>
<h4>Learn about the Master&apos;s of Public Policy program at Nov. 7
open house</h4>
<p>Applications are being accepted for the Master&apos;s in Public
Policy program at California State University, Monterey Bay.</p>
<p>The MPP program is a partnership between the university&apos;s
Department of Health, Human Services and Public Policy and the Leon
and Sylvia Panetta Institute for Public Policy. Application
deadline is March 1, 2008 for the class that starts next fall.
Classes are small, interactive, academically rigorous and
professionally focused.</p>
<p>To learn more about the program, the public is invited to an
open house on Wednesday, Nov. 7 from 5:30 to 7:30 in the Alumni and
Visitors Center on campus. Mr. Panetta will be on hand, schedule
permitting, to talk about the importance of the program.</p>
<p>Courses are offered in the evenings to encourage working
professionals to attend.<br>
Among the courses offered are:<br>
-Congressional and Presidential Politics and Policy<br>
-Separate courses on Budget Policy, Health Policy and Social
Policy<br>
-Money, Media and Influence in Policymaking Environments<br>
-Policy Analysis and Public Action in Diverse Communities<br>
-Collaborative Leadership and Ethical Policymaking</br></br></br></br></br></br></p>
<p>Students currently enrolled in the program come from the
management ranks of local governments, educational institutions and
non-profit organizations; the broad range of professional
backgrounds creates a dynamic learning environment.</p>
<p>For more information about the Master&apos;s of Public Policy
program, visit the web at <a href="http://csumb.edu/mpp;" title="http://csumb.edu/mpp;">http://csumb.edu/mpp;</a> to receive an
application packet, call (831) 582-3565 or e-mail <a href="mailto:mpp@csumb.edu" rel="nofollow">mpp@csumb.edu</a></p>
<fieldset class="fieldgroup group-attachments">
<legend>Attachments</legend>
<div class="field field-type-emvideo field-field-attach-video">
<div class="field-items">
<div class="field-item odd">
<div class="emvideo emvideo-video emvideo-"/>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</fieldset>





