---
title: May 14 2008
date: May 15 2008
slug: may-14-2008
---




<span class="date">Posted on May 15, 2008    </span>
<p><strong>Txt Msgs Alert U</strong><br>
<strong><em>Cell phones transmit safety alerts at
CSUMB<br/></em></strong>&#x2022; Cell phones - a convenient way to send
greetings to friends and family via text messages - have been
transformed into campus communications vehicles. At CSUMB, the
service is called - what else? - OTTERalert. They blast out
campus-wide security and emergency communication alarms - a service
that has been getting a lot of attention since the tragic shootings
at Virginia Tech.<br>
The campus community can rest assured that OTTERalert is for
emergency alerts only; those who sign up will not receive spam.
Privacy is protected, and only campus administrators and members of
the University Police Department can originate the messages. To
read more, <a href="index.html" rel="nofollow">click here</a>.</br></br></p>
<strong>Thursday, May 15</strong>: Variety of capstone
presentations all over campus.<br>
See schedule <a href="http://csumb.edu/site/x21214.xml" rel="nofollow">here</a>.<br>
<strong>Friday, May 16</strong>: Variety of capstone presentations
all over campus, ending with the Teledramatic Arts and Technology
festival in the World Theater, 6-10 p.m.<br>
<strong>Saturday, May 17</strong>: Commencement, Freeman Stadium,
10 a.m.<br>
<br>
<p><br/></p>
<p>&#xA0;</p>
<br>
<p><br/></p>
<p><br/></p>
<p>Our campus is under construction. Please be cautious around
construction areas. We invite you to view this <a href="http://cdo.csumb.edu/site/x4929.xml%20" rel="nofollow">short slide
show</a> created with your safety in mind.</p>
<br>
<p><br/></p>
<p><strong>A Battle of Wills - What happens when a gift no longer
serves the mission of an institution?<br/></strong>. . . Steve
Weldon, director of planned giving at California State University,
Monterey Bay, says he recently negotiated a $2.5 million gift for a
reading center that entailed a 34-page donor agreement put together
by the donor, the donor&apos;s lawyer, a faculty member, the
university&apos;s lawyer and Weldon himself. &quot;The expectations are
detailed and clear for everybody,&quot; he says.<br>
- <em>Current magazine</em>, May/June 2008</br></p>
<p><strong>Etchings named CSUMB&apos;s top athlete - Softball team
closes season with 4-2 loss</strong><br>
California State University, Monterey Bay women&apos;s volleyball player
Brittany Etchings was named the school&apos;s Outstanding Senior Scholar
Athlete of 2008 on Thursday. Etchings, a former standout at Poway
High School, finished her CSUMB career as the leader in kills
(1,343) and digs (1,361) and second all-time in aces with 125. . .
She finished her major in telecommunications, multimedia and
applied computing with a 3.67 GPA.<br>
- <em>The Salinas Californian</em>, May 9, 2008</br></br></p>
<p><strong>Spicy with Sideburns - El Vez is part Weird Al, part
Elvis, and all entertainment</strong><br>
The self-proclaimed Mexican Elvis, El Vez, is much more than just
an impersonator doing rewrites of the King&apos;s most popular songs in
Spanish. The performer behind &quot;You Ain&apos;t Nothing But a Chihuahua,&quot;
his take on &quot;Hound Dog,&quot; also teaches Mexican-American history with
the backing of a fiery rock band on numbers including &quot;Cesar Chavez
&apos;96&quot; and comes on like a savvier, more politically minded &quot;Weird
Al&quot; Yankovic on sly remakes of pop songs like his version of Wall
of Voodoo&apos;s 1982 hit &quot;Mexican Radio.&quot;<br>
- <em>Monterey County Weekly</em>, May 8, 2008</br></br></p>
<p><strong>BROWN &amp; PROUD - El Vez, the &apos;Mexican Elvis,&apos; brings
his wild &apos;El Vez for Prez&apos; show to CSU-Monterey Bay</strong><br>
Appropriating a gringo icon to celebrate Chicano culture is just
one of the many over-the-top quirks of El Vez, the Mexican Elvis.
There&apos;s also the flashy wardrobe and greasy pompadour, channeling
Elvis Presley&apos;s Las Vegas-era lounge act. There are the female
back-up dancers, the El Vettes, appropriately named Priscilia,
Gladysita, Lisa Maria and Que Linda Thompson.<br>
- <em>Monterey Herald</em>, May 8, 2008</br></br></p>
<p><strong>&apos;Wreck Ord Live&apos; festival celebrates release of
CD<br/></strong>For five years, CSU-Monterey Bay students have
compiled their music on one disc to showcase the talent entrenched
on the university&apos;s converted Army base campus. With &quot;Wreck Ord
Live,&quot; the mission is accomplished yet again. To celebrate,
students who produced the album are throwing an outdoor jam. The
&quot;Wreck Ord Live&quot; Music Festival takes place Saturday in the parking
lot of the CSUMB Music Hall.<br>
- <em>Monterey Herald</em>, May 8, 2008</br></p>
<p><strong>CSUMB men in second in regional</strong><br>
Four CSU-Monterey Bay golfers shot par or better Tuesday and the
Otters jumped from fourth to second place, four strokes ahead of
Western Washington University at the NCAA Division II Men&apos;s West
Regional at the Adobe Creek Golf Club in Petaluma.<br>
- <em>Monterey Herald</em>, May 7, 2008</br></br></p>
<p><strong>CSUMB among best places to work<br/></strong>California
State University, Monterey Bay has been named among the Best Places
to Work in Monterey County by the Monterey County Business Council.
Personal Dynamics Consulting of Florida designed a 40-question
survey used to identify the top employers.<br>
- <em>The Salinas Californian</em>, May 7, 2008</br></p>
<p><strong>Economy worries students</strong><br>
Sergio Barajas, 21, is graduating this month from California State
University, Monterey Bay. But Barajas is worried about not yet
having a job. He&apos;s not alone. Finding a good-paying, quality job is
the biggest worry among college students, according to this year&apos;s
nationwide survey of U.S. campuses by the CSUMB-based Panetta
Institute. . . &quot;I&apos;m enrolling into a one-year teacher credential
program,&quot; Barajas said. &quot;I&apos;m optimistic. I hope by the time I&apos;m
done with the program, I&apos;ll be able to find a job.&quot;<br>
- <em>The Salinas Californian</em>, May 3, 2008</br></br></p>
<p><strong>Programa de CSUMB lanza carreras de
postgrado<br/></strong>Con la ayuda de casi $1 mill&#xF3;n de d&#xF3;lares
la subvenci&#xF3;n federal de 4 a&#xF1;os, McNair, la Universidad de
California en la Bah&#xED;a de Monterey est&#xE1; preparando a 25 talentosos
estudiantes para que obtengan su doctorado en otras
instituciones.<br>
- <em>El Sol</em>, May 3, 2008</br></p>
<p><strong>CSUMB softball opens playoffs with
victory</strong><br>
ARCATA - The CSU Monterey Bay softball team defeated Humboldt State
5-0 in its first game of the 2008 CCAA softball championships.
Humboldt State was ranked sixth in the nation. CSUMB (35-22) plays
CSU Stanislaus in the second round of the championships game.
Thursday, the Otters were powered by the pitching of Angela Cabral
and a three-run homer by Homa Shafii.<br>
- <em>Monterey Herald</em>, May 2, 2008</br></br></p>
<br>
<p><br>
<strong>For campus news, activities and events, please visit
our</strong> <a href="http://www.csumb.edu/news%20" rel="nofollow">news website</a><strong>.</strong></br></p>
<fieldset class="fieldgroup group-attachments">
<legend>Attachments</legend>
<div class="field field-type-emvideo field-field-attach-video">
<div class="field-items">
<div class="field-item odd">
<div class="emvideo emvideo-video emvideo-"/>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</fieldset>
</br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br>




