---
title: CSUMB earns recognition in U.S. News
date: August 20 2009
slug: csumb-earns-recognition-in-u-s--news
---




<span class="date">Posted on Aug 20, 2009    </span>
<p>Aug. 20, 2009</p>
CSUMB earns recognition in U.S. News
<p>The service learning program at CSU Monterey Bay has been
recognized by the editors of U.S. News &amp; World Report in the
magazine&apos;s 2010 edition of America&apos;s Best Colleges.</p>
<p>The magazine names &quot;academic programs to look for,&quot; which it
defines as &quot;outstanding examples of academic programs that are
linked to student success.&quot; CSUMB&apos;s service learning program is
listed among the top programs in the country &#x2013; and is one of only
nine public schools included in the ranking. It&apos;s the sixth
straight year the university has been honored in this category.</p>
<p>The listing is based on nominations submitted by college
presidents, chief academic officers, and deans from schools around
the country.</p>
<p>Service learning is a component of the university&apos;s academic
program and is integrated into both the general education
requirements and the graduation requirements of each major.</p>
<p>Hundreds of community organizations partner with the university
to provide service-learning opportunities for students. Among them
are the Boys and Girls Club, American Red Cross, California
Conservation Corps, California State Parks, Carmel Mission and
dozens of public schools.</p>
<p>CSUMB also earned a high ranking in teh category of diversity,
with Hispanics accounting for 28 percent of the student
population.</p>
<p>Among liberal arts colleges, CSUMB is ranked No. 18 in the
category of &quot;least debt,&quot; with the average student carrying a debt
load of $15,305.</p>
<p>&#xA0;</p>
<p>&#xA0;</p>
<p><strong>&#xA0;&#xA0;</strong></p>
<p><strong>&#xA0;&#xA0;</strong></p>
<p><strong>&#xA0;&#xA0;</strong></p>
<p><strong>&#xA0;&#xA0;</strong></p>
<p><strong>&#xA0;&#xA0;</strong></p>
<fieldset class="fieldgroup group-attachments">
<legend>Attachments</legend>
<div class="field field-type-emvideo field-field-attach-video">
<div class="field-items">
<div class="field-item odd">
<div class="emvideo emvideo-video emvideo-"/>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</fieldset>





