---
title: News Releases 2014
date: December 19 2014
slug: news-releases-2014
---




<span class="date">Posted on Dec 19, 2014    </span>
<p><strong>First class o nursing students gets
&apos;pinned&apos;</strong><br>
For one group of history-making Cal State Monterey Bay graduates,
it&apos;s not about the caps and gowns. It&apos;s about the pin. . . .
<a href="../../dec/18/first-class-nursing-students-gets-pinned.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>Capping off college with senior projects<br>
<em>CSUMB holds annual Capstone Festival Dec. 18 and
19</em></br></strong><br>
Cal State Monterey Bay&apos;s fall Capstone Festival will be hld Dec. 18
and 19 at locations around campus. The public is invited. . . .
<a href="../../dec/15/capstone-festival-set-dec-18-and-19.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>An animation celebration</strong><br>
CSU Monterey Bay&apos;s Cinematic Arts and Technology Department
presents its third Wonderland Film Festival o Monday, Dec. 8. . . .
<a href="../../dec/5/animation-celebration-set-dec-8.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>President Ochoa attends White House conference<br>
<em>College access topic of education summit</em></br></strong><br>
On Dec. 4, Cal State Monterey Bay President Eduardo Ochoa joined
President Obama, the First Lady, Vice President Biden aand hundreds
of college presidents and other higher education leaders to
announce new actions to help more students prepare for and graduate
from college. . . . <a href="../../dec/4/president-ochoa-attends-white-house-conference.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>CSUMB sees freshmen apps jump more than 5
percent</strong><br>
CSU Monterey Bay saw a 5.3 percent increase in freshmen
applications this year over last year, with approximately 15,391
first-time freshmen applying for admission next fall. . . .
<a href="../../dec/2/freshmen-applications-jump-more-5-percent.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>Become an entrepreneur in 54 hours<br>
<em>CSUMB to host Startup Weekend Jan. 23-25</em></br></strong><br>
Ever wonder what it takes to be an entrepreneur? CSU Monterey Bay
will be a great place to find out when the university hosts Startup
Weekend Monterey Bay Jan. 23-25. . . . <a href="../../nov/25/become-entrepreneur-54-hours.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>CSUMB joins national initiative on economic
inequality</strong><br>
The American Association of State Colleges and Universities (AASCU)
is spearheading a national effort to engage students in the topic
of economic inequality and its impact on democracy. CSU Monterey
Bay, which has long been a leader in the area of service learning
in higher education, is one of 31 institutions in the effort. . . .
<a href="../../nov/20/csumb-joins-national-initiative-economic-inequality.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>Giving back, helping students<br>
<em>Benefactors honored for providing
scholarships</em></br></strong><br>
Bob Johnson and Diego Espinoza will be among the honorees at the
National Philanthropy Day luncheon on Nov. 21. Both were nominated
for awards by CSU Monterey Bay, but they share something much more
important &#xA0;. . . .<a href="../../nov/18/giving-back-benefit-students.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>Community invited to Dec. 6 winter concert</strong><br>
CSU Monterey Bay&apos;s Music and Performing Arts Department will hold
its annual winter concert, &quot;A Holiday Parade Around the World,&quot; at
2 p.m., Saturday, Dec. 6, in the World Theater. The public is
invited. . . . <a href="../../nov/14/community-invited-dec-6-winter-concert.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>Anthropologist to speak on migration and humanitarian
aid</strong><br>
Dr. Dawn Chatty, director of the Refugee Studies Center at the
University of Oxford, will speak at CSU Monterey Bay on Nov. 17.
Her topic: Forced Migration and the Humanitarian Aid Regime. . . .
<a href="../../nov/12/director-refugee-studies-center-lecture.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></p>
<p><strong>Vision and Voice<br>
<em>Alumnus speaks on his human rights, public health
work</em></br></strong><br>
CSU Monterey Bay alumnus Daniel Jack Lyons will visit campus Nov.
18 and 19 for a pair of presentations on his current work. . . .
<a href="../../nov/7/vision-and-voice.html" rel="nofollow">continue
reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>CSUMB celebrates Native American Heritage
Month</strong><br>
CSU Monterey Bay celebrates Native American Heritage Month in
November with talks, a film screening, poetry reading, photography
exhibit, musical performance and panel discussion &#x2013; all around the
theme of &quot;generational voices.&quot; . . . <a href="../../oct/28/csumb-celebrates-native-american-heritage-month.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>Thinking outside the borders</strong><br>
<strong><em>La Santa Cecilia &#x2013; A band with a
message</em></strong><br>
La Santa Cecilia is set to rock CSU Monterey Bay&apos;s University
Center on Oct. 29. Coming off its recent Grammy win for &quot;Best Latin
Rock/Alternative/Urban Album,&quot; the band has enchanted its fans with
diverse genres, powerful lyrical messages and colorful
performances. . . . <a href="../../oct/22/thinking-outside-borders.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></br></p>
<p><strong>Learn about instructional science graduate progam<br>
<em>Open House scheduled for Nov. 6</em></br></strong><br>
California State University, Monterey Bay invites the public to
learn about the master&apos;s degree program in Instructional Science
and Technology at an open house on Nov. 6. . . . <a href="../../oct/22/learn-about-instructional-science-grad-program.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>Stanford futurist kicks off President&apos;s Speaker
Series</strong><br>
&quot;Innovators, upstarts and mythmakers: the deep origins of Silicon
Valley&quot; will be the topic addressed by Stanford professor Paul
Saffo on Nov. 4, when the President&apos;s Speaker Series returns to Cal
State Monterey Bay . . . . <a href="../../oct/17/stanford-futurist-kicks-presidents-speaker-series.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>Rock . . . honed for the holidays</strong><br>
Kick off the holiday season on Nov. 8 when the December People &#x2013;
Robert Berry, Gary Pihl, Dave Medd, David Lauser and Jack Foster &#x2013;
make an encoure appearance at Cal State Monterey Bay&apos;s World
Theater. . . . <a href="../../oct/14/rock-honed-holidays.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></br></br></br></p>
<p><strong>A Greater Vision<br>
<em>CSUMB forum on public health and agriculture: In it together
for healthy eating</em></br></strong><br>
The &quot;Greater Vision&quot; series of public forums on topics important to
local agriculture and the larger community continues Oct. 22 at CSU
Monterey Bay. The topic is &quot;The Business of Healthy Eating.&quot; . . .
.<a href="../../oct/14/forum-addresses-business-healthy-eating.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>Alcohol Awareness Week comes to CSUMB</strong><br>
As part of National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week (NCAAW) Oct.
20&#x2013;25, CSU Monterey Bay is offering panel discussions, games,
displays and other activities to help students understand the
ramifications of alcohol and its effect. . . . <a href="../../oct/13/alcohol-awareness-week-comes-csumb.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></br></br></br></p>
<p><strong>Beyond rhythm<br>
<em>Master of the mbira visits CSUMB</em></br></strong><br>
CSU Monterey Bay&apos;s concert series continues on Oct. 24 when the
community is invited to an afternoon of African music and culture
with mbira and marimba master Cosmas Magaya of Zimbabwe. . . .
<a href="../../oct/9/beyond-rhythm.html" rel="nofollow">continue
reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>CSUMB lands $8.6 million grant to boost teacher
quality</strong><br>
CSU Monterey Bay has received one of 24 grants from the U.S.
Department of Education to recruit, train and support new teachers
primarily in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM). . .
. <a href="../../oct/9/csumb-awarded-86-million-boost-teacher-quality.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>CSUMB presents an evening with Lea DeLaria<br>
<em>Orange</em> actress visits campus Oct. 15</br></strong><br>
An evening with Lea DeLaria will highlight Cal State Monterey Bay&apos;s
celebration of LGBTQ history month. . . . <a href="../../oct/3/csumb-presents-evening-lea-delaria.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>Creating a thousand lights<br>
<em>CSUMB joins statewide message of hope</em></br></strong><br>
California State University campuses throughout the state are
holding candle-lighting events this month to send a message of
support, understanding and comfort to those who have been impacted
by suicide or other mental health-related challenges. . . .
<a href="../../oct/2/creating-thousand-lights.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>Protecting intellectual property<br>
<em>Entrepreneurship Forum set for Oct. 14</em></br></strong><br>
For most companies, their intellectual property, including their
brand, logo, taglines, documents and innovations, are their most
important assets. Those assets need to be protected from
competitive infringement. . . . <a href="../../oct/2/protecting-intellectual-property.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></p>
<p><strong>Valley of the Heart comes to CSUMB&apos;s World Theater<br>
<em>Story of love and endurance staged Oct. 18 and
19</em></br></strong><br>
Valley of the Heart explores themes that are ever-present in
California &#x2013; immigration, racism, identity &#x2013; and folds them into a
love story and a history lesson. . . . <a href="../../sep/29/valley-heart-comes-world-theater.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>Concert offers an array of new music</strong><br>
CSU Monterey Bay&apos;s concert series resumes on Ot. 13 with a free
performance by A/B Duo. . . . <a href="../../sep/29/concert-offers-array-new-music.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>Grants help students GEAR UP for college</strong><br>
Middle school students in Monterey County will be better equipped
for college thanks to federal grants awarded to Cal State Monterey
Bay . . . . <a href="../../sep/29/grants-help-students-gear-college.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></br></br></br></p>
<p><strong>Mayan health practices topic of Oct. 6
talk</strong><br>
Professor Bernardo Ca&apos;amal Itz&#xE1;, the United Nations representative
for the Mayan People, will visit Cal State Monterey Bay on Oct. 6
as part of Hispanic Heritage Month. . . . <a href="../../sep/24/mayan-health-practices-topic-oct-6-talk.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>A touch of CSUMB at Days and Nights
Festival</strong><br>
Philip Glass&apos; Days and Nights Festival returns to the local area
Sept. 25-28, with a big contribution from CSU Monterey Bay. Enid
Baxter Ryce, chair of CSUMB&apos;s Cinematic Arts Department, has
planned the daytime portion of the festival, putting together a
lineup of films, animation and puppet workshops, talks and a social
event, all free to the public. . . . <a href="../../sep/18/touch-csumb-days-and-nights-festival.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>Foundation of CSUMB adds board members</strong><br>
Eight community members have joined the Foundation of CSU Monterey
Bay board of directors. Established in 2011, the foundation brings
community and campus leaders together to foster, encourage and
promote the goals and purposes of CSUMB. . . . <a href="../../sep/17/foundation-csumb-adds-board-members.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>Coming to terms with the experience of
combat</strong><br>
As a marine lieutenant during the Vietnam War, Karl Marlantes
learned what every young officer learns &#x2013; to fire a rifle, to
command a platoon, to fight and to kill. Since then, he has spent
his time reading, thinking and writing a memoir that has helped him
come to terms with tht experience. . . . <a href="../../sep/16/coming-terms-experience-combat.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>Visiting artist series kicks off Sept. 17</strong><br>
CSU Monterey Bay&apos;s visiting artist series kicks off Sept. 17 when
Los Angeles artists Karla Diaz and Mario Ybarra Jr. visit campus. .
. . <a href="../../sep/15/visiting-artist-series-kicks-sept-17.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>Constitution Day event set for Sept. 17</strong><br>
To commemorate Constitution Day, CSU Monterey Bay Professor David
Reichard will present a talk on the topic &quot;Beyond 5 to 4:
Understanding How Supreme Court Justices Interpret the Constitution
and Why it Matters,&quot; at 8 p.m., Sept. 17. . . <strong>.</strong>
<a href="../../sep/15/csumb-commemorates-constitution-day.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>Sea Otter Awareness Week comes to campus &#x2013; Talk scheduled
for Sept. 24</strong><br>
Sea Otter Awareness Week, the annual recognition of the vital role
these marine mammals play in the near-shore ecosystem, will be
celebrated Sept. 21-27. . . . <a href="../../sep/14/sea-otter-awareness-week-comes-campus.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></p>
<p><strong>CSUMB celebrates Chicano/Latino Heritage
Month</strong><br>
Sept. 15 through Oct. 15 is Chicano/Latino Heritage Month. During
the month, the cultures and traditions of those who trace their
roots to Spain, Mexico and the Spanish-speaking nations of Central
and South America and the Caribbean are celebrated. CSU Monterey
Bay is commemorating the month with a variety of activities and
events. . . . <a href="../../sep/14/chicanolatino-heritage-month-celebrated.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>Coastal cleanup &#x2013; in Salinas</strong><br>
The annual worldwide Coastal Cleanup Day is the largest volunteer
event on the plant. Hundreds of thousands of people in more than
100 countries clean up beaches, lakes and waterways. If you&apos;d like
to help with the effort, join CSUMB&apos;s Return of the Natives on
Sept. 20 to celebrate the day and contribute to a better
environment. . . . <a href="../../sep/5/coastal-cleanup-%E2%80%93-salinas.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></br></br></br></p>
<p><strong>Learn what to do in an emergency</strong><br>
Should a disaster strike, community members need to be prepared,
educated on what to do and have the resources and training to be
emergency-ready . . . . <a href="../../sep/5/learn-what-do-emergency.html" rel="nofollow">continue
reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>Aspiring math teacher earns CSU award</strong><br>
Cal State Monterey Bay sophomore Jesus Ochoa Perez has been chosen
for a CSU Trustees Award for Outstanding Achievement. He will be
honored on Sept. 9 at the CSU board meeting in Long Beach. . . .
<a href="../../sep/3/aspiring-math-teacher-earns-csu-award.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>Chinese acrobats bring their art to CSUMB<br>
<em>World Theater season opens with Sept. 17
performance</em></br></strong><br>
Acrobatics is an ancient art form in China. Centuries ago,
performers combined dramatic folk arts and variety shows with the
cultural roots of their civilization, and using common objects as
stage props, created an acrobatic art unique to their culture. . .
. <a href="../../aug/22/national-acrobats-china-bring-their-art-csumb.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></br></br></br></p>
<p><strong>Health sciences, human services dean
named</strong><br>
Britt Rios-Ellis, a professor of health sciences at Long Beach
State and director of the National Council of La Raza/CSULB Center
for Latino Community Health, Evaluation and Leadership Training,
has been named the founding dean of Cal State Monterey Bay&apos;s
College of Health Sciences and Human Services. . . . <a href="../../aug/19/health-sciences-human-services-dean-named.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>Acting out against sexual assault</strong><br>
Call it an innovative approach to tackling a sensitive subject. On
Sept. 2, an acting troupe, Catharsi Productions, will make its
first appearance at CSU Monterey Bay in a production called &quot;Sex
Signals.&quot; . . . <a href="../../aug/13/acting-out-against-sexual-assault.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></br></br></br></p>
<p><strong>CSUMB taking applications for spring</strong><br>
CSU Monterey Bay is accepting applications for spring 2015 from
upper division transfer students, and from students planning to
enroll in the nursing program or the computer science and
information technology online program.<br>
<br>
<strong>MASTERING MATH<br>
Algebra Academy gives middle schoolers a head start</br></strong><br>
More than 100 incoming eighth-graders will spend the last days of
their summer immersed in math at the Bruce W. Woolpert Algebra
Academy, which begins Aug. 7 at Graniterock headquarters in
Watsonville. . . . <a href="../../aug/1/mastering-math.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></br></br></br></p>
<p><strong>COLLEGE SENIORS<br>
Osher Lifelong Learning Institute starts fall
semester</br></strong><br>
What do Tolstoy, local government and the California condor have in
common? They are among the classes that will be offered this
semester through the Osher Lifelong Learning Institute &#x2013; OLLI &#x2013; at
California State University, Monterey Bay . . . . <a href="../../jul/24/college-seniors.html" rel="nofollow">continue
reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>Grant helps migrant students attain college
dream</strong><br>
CSU Monterey Bay has received a $2.1 milliion federal grant aimed
at enrolling more migrant students in higher education. . . .
<a href="../../jun/26/grant-helps-migrant-students-attain-college-dream.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>President Ochoa joins coalition in support of Common
Core</strong><br>
CSU Monterey Bay President Eduardo Ochoa has joined more than 200
college and university leaders from 33 states in a new coalition,
Higher Ed for Higher Standards, to mobilize in support of the
Common Core State Standards. . . . <a href="../../jun/23/president-ochoa-joins-coalition-support-common-core.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></p>
<p><strong>MSW program earns national accreditation</strong><br>
CSU Monterey Bay&apos;s master&apos;s degree in social work program passed an
extensive accreditation process recently, and is now nationally
accredited. . . . <a href="../../jun/16/social-work-program-earns-national-accreditation.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>CSUMB video wins CASE silver medal</strong><br>
A video telling the story of CSUMB has taken a top honor in the
CASE (Council for Advancement and Support of Education Circle of
Excellence competition. . . . <a href="../../jun/6/csumb-video-wins-case-silver-medal.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>Education dean named at CSUMB</strong><br>
Jose Luis Alvarado who has served as associate dean for the College
of Education at San Diego State University since 2010, has been
named dean of Cal State Monterey Bay&apos;s newly created College of
Education. . . . <a href="../../jun/5/dean-named-new-college-education.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>&apos;Help others to achieve their dreams,&apos; graduates
told<br>
<em>Obama administration official commencement keynote
speaker</em></br></strong><br>
On a breezy, sunny morning, Cecilia Mu&#xF1;oz urged the graduates of
California State University, Monterey Bay to maintain the quest for
learning that brought them to the university . . . . <a href="../../may/17/help-others-achieve-their-dreams-graduates-told.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>Film commission award goes to CSUMB
student</strong><br>
Jessica Moss is this year&apos;s recipient of the Monterey County Film
Commission&apos;s student scholarship. . . . <a href="../../may/9/csumb-students-wins-film-commission-scholarship.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>GOWNS GONE GREEN<br>
<em>Class of 2014 dons regalia made from recycled
bottles</em></br></strong><br>
The gowns worn by CSU Monterey Bay&apos;s graduates will still be black,
but come commencement day on May 17, they&apos;ll also be green. . . .
<a href="../../may/8/gowns-gone-green.html" rel="nofollow">continue
reading</a></br></br></br></br></p>
<p><strong>Proposed admissions changes at CSU Monterey
Bay</strong><br>
University moves to end guarantee for admission of out-of-area
students . . . . <a href="http://admissions.csumb.edu/first-time-freshmen-impaction" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>CSUMB included in &apos;green&apos; colleges guid</strong>e<br>
For the fourth consecutive year, CSU Monterey Bay has been named
one of the most environmentally responsible colleges in North
America. . . . <a href="../../may/1/csumb-included-green-colleges-guide.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></br></br></br></p>
<p><strong>Obama administration official to speak at
commencement<br>
<em>Aquarium director Julie Packard to receive honorary
doctorate</em></br></strong><br>
Obama administration official Cecilia Mu&#xF1;oz will be the keynote
speaker at CSU Monterey Bay&apos;s commencement ceremony on May 17. Ms.
Mu&#xF1;oz is an adviser to the President and director of the Domestic
Policy Council, which coordinates the domestic policy-making
process in the White House. . . . <a href="../../apr/29/obama-administration-official-speak-commencement.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>JAZZ IT UP<br>
<em>Annual Heritage Music Festival has Latin
flavor</em></br></strong><br>
The community is invited to an evening of jazz on the campus of
California State University, Monterey Bay as the annual Heritage
Music Festival returns on May 8. . . . <a href="../../apr/24/jazz-it.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>KAZU wins Murrow Awards</strong><br>
Krista Almanzan, news director of KAZU, has won two regional Edward
R. Murrow Awards for excellence in electronic journalism. The
awards are given by the Radio, Television, Digital News Association
. . . . <a href="../../apr/22/kazu-earns-two-murrow-awards.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>Keepin&apos; It Reel</strong><br>
Three days of film showings &#x2013; part of the 13th annual Reel Work May
Day Labor Film Festival &#x2013; will be held on the campus of Cal State
Monterey Bay . . . <strong>.</strong> <a href="../../apr/18/keepin-it-reel.html" rel="nofollow">continue
reading</a></br></br></br></br></p>
<p><strong>Undergraduate research pays off big</strong><br>
For the next three years, Allison Moreno won&apos;t have to worry about
how she will pay for graduate school. The CSUMB senior biology
major has received a prestigious National Science Foundation
Graduate Research Fellowship worth $132,000 over three years . . .
. <a href="../../apr/18/undergraduate-research-pays-big.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>Art in the service of science<br>
<em>Science illustration students exhibit work at Pacific Grove
museum</em></br></strong><br>
If you&apos;ve ever wondered about the artwork that illustrates science
textbooks, field guides and interpretive signs in parks and nature
preserves, you have the opportunity to learn about it at an exhibit
in Pacific Grove . . . . <a href="../../apr/12/art-service-science.html" rel="nofollow">continue
reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>Annual sanctuary symposium set for April 26 at
CSUMB</strong><br>
. . . CSU Monterey Bay&apos;s annual Sanctuary Currents symposium &#x2013; held
in collaboration with the Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary &#x2013;
brings scientists, managers, students and members of the public
together to address the most important issues of the day. This
year, the topic for the April 26 symposium is Marine Debris: How Do
You Pitch In? . . . . <a href="../../apr/10/marine-debris-how-do-you-pitch.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></br></br></br></p>
<p><strong>CSUMB staff member named Broadband
Champion</strong><br>
Arlene Krebs, technology development officer at CSU Monterey Bay,
has been named a 2014 Broadband Champion by the California Emerging
Technology Fund. . . . <a href="../../mar/26/csumb-staff-member-named-broadband-champion.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>Flute concert set for April 4 at CSUMB</strong><br>
Wayla Chambo will present a program of works for flute at a free
public performance April 4 at CSU Monterey Bay . . . . <a href="../../mar/24/public-invited-april-4-flute-concert.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>Social Justice Colloquium looks at LGBT
issues</strong><br>
This year&apos;s Social Justice Colloquium at CSU Monterey Bay examines
lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender history, political
organizing and the meaning of justice. . . . <a href="../../mar/24/social-justice-colloquium-looks-lgbt-issues.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>Puppet-based animation demonstrated at CSUMB</strong><br>
Sam Koji Hale, an animator and puppet maker, will visit CSU
Monterey Bay on April 10 for a pair of events open to the public. .
. . <a href="../../mar/24/puppet-based-animation-workshops-csumb.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></p>
<p><strong>On the outside looking in</strong><br>
Short-story writer Lysley Tenorio will read from his work april 8
at CSU Monterey Bay. The public is invited to this free event.
Tenorio is the author of Monstress, which binds together eight
tales of isolated misfits &#xA0;in San Francisco and the
Philippines. . . . <a href="../../mar/20/outside-looking.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>Profesor creates Fort Ord exhibit</strong><br>
Fort Ord was a vital center during much of the 20th century. Planet
Ord explores the contemporary experience and historical echoes of
this abandoned city, relating it to the many lost places in
contemporary America. . . . <a href="../../mar/19/professor-creates-fort-ord-exhibit.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>Striving to reach a bold goal</strong><br>
Jeff Edmondson, managing director of Strive Together, will speak at
CSU Monterey Bay on April 9 as the President&apos;s Speaker Series
concludes for the year. . . . <a href="../../mar/19/striving-reach-bold-goal.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>Father Serra biographer lectures at CSUMB</strong><br>
Gregory Orfalea, author of <em>Journey to the Sun: Junipero Serra&apos;s
Dream and the Founding of California</em>, will make a presentation
at CSU Monterey Bay on April 3. The community is invited to this
free event. . . . <a href="../../mar/18/father-serra-biographer-lectures-april-3.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>Their thing: Strings<br>
<em>Eight hands plus one cello = lots of fun</em></br></strong><br>
Stringfever, a London-based string quartet, is a little bit
classical, a little bit rock &apos;n&apos; roll &#x2013; and humorous. The foursome
will perform at 7:30 p.m., April 3, at CSU Monterey Bay&apos;s World
Theater. . . . <a href="../../mar/11/their-thing-strings.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></br></br></br></br></br></br></p>
<p><strong>Workshop examines disability access</strong><br>
The community is invited to a workshop at CSU Monterey Bay intended
to increase awareness of people with disabilities. . . . <a href="../../mar/10/workshop-examines-disability-access.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>Should California have the highest minimum wage in the
U.S.?<br>
<em>Ethics panel will examine the topic on March
27</em></br></strong><br>
Tens of thousands of California&apos;s hourly workers will become the
best paid in the country when a new minimum wage law goes into
effect . . . . <a href="../../mar/10/should-california-have-highest-minimum-wage-us.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>One man&apos;s fight to stop street violence</strong><br>
Dr. David Kennedy of Harvard&apos;s John F. Kennedy School of Government
will speak at CSU Monterey Bay on March 28 as the President&apos;s
Speaker Series continues. . . . <a href="../../mar/6/one-mans-fight-stop-street-violence.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>MENding Monologues returns to CSUMB</strong><br>
Following on the heels of Eve Ensler&apos;s &quot;Vagina Monologues,&quot; CSU
Monterey Bay students continue their campaign to end sexual
violence against women with three performances of the &quot;The MENding
Monologues.&quot; . . . <a href="../../mar/3/mending-monologues-returns-csumb.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>Sociologist to speak at CSU Monterey Bay</strong><br>
C.J. Pascoe, whose work explores the terrain of sexuality and
gender identity, will speak at CSU Monterey Bay on March 25. She is
the author of &quot;Dude, You&apos;re a Fag: Masculinity and Sexuality in
High School.&quot; . . . <a href="../../feb/26/sociologist-speak-csu-monterey-bay.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></br></br></br></p>
<p><strong>Provost named at CSU Monterey Bay</strong><br>
Bonnie Irwin, dean of the College of Arts and Humanities and
professor of English at Eastern Illinois University, has been named
provost and vice president for academic affairs at CSUMonterey Bay.
Her appointment follows a national search. . . . <a href="../../feb/25/new-provost-will-join-campus-july.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>&apos;Local Connections&apos; concert rocks and rolls onto World
Theater stage</strong><br>
The World Theater at CSU Monterey Bay will offer a special treat
for its audience on March 8 when it presents a concert featuring
Rio Salinas, and opening act Tom Faia and The Juice . . . .
<a href="../../feb/20/local-bands-stage-world-theater.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></br></br></br></p>
<p><strong>Tales from the trenches<br>
<em>Entrepreneurship Forum set for Feb. 26</em></br></strong><br>
Four business owners will share their experiences starting and
running successful ventures and the lessons they learned along the
way at the spring Entrepreneurship Forum set for Feb. 26 a CSU
Monterey Bay. . . . <a href="../../feb/18/tales-trenches.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>&apos;Ideas of March&apos; mobile app competition at CSUMB<br>
<em>Opportunity for participants to create the next killer
app</em></br></strong><br>
It&apos;s innovative, intense and for those who thrive on creative
competition, a shot at fame and fortune. It&apos;s the &quot;Ideas of March,&quot;
a three-day Android development competition open to college
students with basic programming skills who are interested in
producing mobil apps. . . . <a href="../../feb/13/ideas-march-mobile-app-competition-csumb.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>&apos;Flourish Monterey County&apos; focus of speaker series<br>
<em>Kicks off March 4 with talk on economic
development</em></br></strong><br>
With the theme &quot;Flourish Monterey County,&quot; this year&apos;s President&apos;s
Speaker Series at Cal STate Monterey Bay will get under way on
March 4 when Mary Jo Waits visits campus. . . . <a href="../../feb/12/flourish-monterey-county-focus-speaker-series.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>CSUMB reaches out to black community through church
visits</strong><br>
In February, a trio of CSU Monterey Bay administrators will be
featured speakers at local churches to spread the word about the
importance of going to college . . . . <a href="../../feb/10/csumb-reaches-out-black-community-through-church-visits.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></br></br></br></p>
<p><strong>Online path to computer science degee
completion</strong><br>
Did you leave school before you finished your bachelor&apos;s degree in
computer science? Do you have a college degree but would like to
earn a second one in computer science? . . . . <a href="../../feb/5/online-path-computer-science-degree-completion.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>The hidden health crisis on campus: Eating
disorders<br>
<em>Feb. 26 film showing, discussion will address the
issue</em></br></strong><br>
. . . To raise awareness of the issue, CSU Monterey Bay&apos;s Health
and Wellness Services will observe National Eating Disorder
Awareness Week with a program on Feb. 26 . . . . <a href="../../feb/5/hidden-health-crisis-campus-eating-disorders.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>FOCUS returns to campus</strong><br>
CSU Monterey Bay will host FOCUS, the university&apos;s annual look at
sustainability issues, on Feb. 12. The seventh annual free event
presents speakers and discussion groups that address the topic,
&quot;Sustainability and a Sense of Place.&quot; . . . <a href="../../feb/4/sustainability-and-sense-place.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>Adventure awaits at Banff Film Festival<br>
<em>Festival benefits Return of the Natives project at
CSUMB</em></br></strong><br>
Experience adventure ont he big screen &#x2013; from mountaintops to
crashing waves to foaming river rapids &#x2013; when the Banff Mountain
Film Festival world tour makes a stop at Monterey&apos;s Golden State
Theatre on Feb. 28. . . . <a href="../../feb/3/festival-benefits-return-natives.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a><br>
<br>
<strong>Apply now for instructional science, technology
program</strong><br>
CSU Monterey Bay invites the public to learn more about the
master&apos;s degree program in Instructional Science and Technology at
an open house on Feb. 13. . . . <a href="../31/learn-about-instructional-science-program.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></br></br></br></p>
<p><strong>Working nurses can now earn bachelor&apos;s degree at
CSUMB</strong><br>
To help meet a growing demand for nurses with bachelor&apos;s degrees,
CSU Monterey Bay started a nursing program in 2012, partnering with
four local community colleges. Starting in June, the program will
add a tract for already-employed nurses with associate&apos;s degrees
who want to earn a bachelor&apos;s while they continue to work. . . .
<a href="../29/bachelors-degree-now-available-working-nurses.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>Monterey resident to lead Cradle to Career
Partnership</strong><br>
Cynthia Nelson Holmsky is joining CSUMB in an administrative
appointment to be director of the Monterey County Cradle to Career
Partnership. She will be responsible for establishing the Cradle to
Career Partnership as a catalyst for regional partners to work
together to drive better results in education, for every child from
cradle to career . . . . <a href="../27/monterey-resident-lead-cradle-career-partnership.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>Record number apply to CSUMB</strong><br>
For the fifth straight year, CSUMB received a record number of
freshmen applications. Freshmen hoping to enroll in fall 2014
submitted more than 14,800 applications, 6.4 percent more than last
year. . . . <a href="../17/record-number-applications-fall.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>Open University opens up opportunities</strong><br>
Maybe you&#x2019;re interested in pursuing your bachelor&apos;s degree,
preparing for a promotion at work or just want one class while you
take some time off from an out-of-town university.&#xA0;Or maybe
you want to learn about rock and roll cinema, or how to create 3D
characters for video games.&#xA0;There&#x2019;s an opportunity to do all
of those at Cal State Monterey Bay. . . . <a href="../10/open-university-opens-opportunities.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>COLLEGE SENIORS<br>
<em>Osher Lifelong Learning Institute brings folks back to
school</em></br></strong><br>
What do Woody Allen, nature photography and spy novels have in
common?&#xA0;They are among the classes that will be offered this
semester through the Osher Lifelong Learning Institute &#x2013; OLLI &#x2013; at
California State University, Monterey Bay specifically for those 50
and better. . . . <a href="../8/college-seniors.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>Become an entrepreneur in 54 hours</strong><br>
<em><strong>CSUMB to host Startup Weekend Jan.
24-26</strong></em><br>
Ever wonder what it takes to be an entrepreneur? CSU Monterey Bay
will be a great place to find out when the university hosts Startup
Weekend Monterey Bay Jan. 24-26. . . . <a href="../7/become-entrepreneur-54-hours.html" rel="nofollow">continue
reading</a></br></br></p>
<p><strong>CSUMB&apos;s Return of the Natives annual event Jan.
18</strong><br>
Volunteers will be out at 7 a.m., Saturday, Jan. 18, looking for
hawks, geese, ducks, wrens and a variety of other species at the
Watershed Institute&apos;s ninth annual winter bird count at Upper Carr
Lake in Salinas. Everyone is welcome to help. . . . <a href="help-ron-count-birds.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>&apos;Jump Rope Sprint&apos; &#x2013; A gold medal dream<br>
<em>Mockumentary screening to benefit Cinematic Arts at
CSUMB</em></br></strong><br>
What started as a silly idea for a movie has become a reality &#x2013; and
may be headed for the Olympics. . . &quot;Jump Rope Sprint&quot; will get its
first local showing at Carmel&apos;s Sunset Center on Jan. 11, a
fundraiser for CSU Monterey Bay&apos;s Cinematic Arts community outreach
programs. . . . <a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2013/dec/31/jump-rope-sprint-%E2%80%93-gold-medal-dream" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>





