---
title: News Releases 2015
date: January 20 2015
slug: news-releases-2015
---




<span class="date">Posted on Jan 20, 2015    </span>
<p><strong>Professor earns &apos;First-Year Student Advocate&apos;
honor</strong><br>
Maria Villase&#xF1;or, associate professor and coordinator of the
First-Year Seminar program at Cal State Monterey Bay, has received
national recognition as an outstanding champion for freshmen
students. . . . <a href="../20/professor-earns-first-year-student-advocate-honor.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>Rape Crisis Center taps student&apos;s work for race
logo</strong><br>
As publicity kicks in for the annual Together with Love 5 and 10K
run, colorful posters are popping up around the local area. The
artwork was done by CSU Monterey Bay student Diana Mejia in
Professor Bobbi Long&apos;s introduction to digital graphic design
class. . . . <a href="../13/rape-crisis-center-taps-students-work-race-logo.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>MacArthur Fellows to visit CSUMB<br>
<em>Award-winners hope to inspire students</em></br></strong><br>
The MacArturos &#x2013; well, some of them &#x2013; are coming to Cal State
Monterey Bay. . . . <a href="../9/latino-geniuses-visit-csumb.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>University earns community engagement
classification</strong><br>
The Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching has once
again honored CSU Monterey Bay for its focus on service and public
engagement, making it one of only 361 institutions in the United
States to hold the classification. . . . <a href="../9/university-earns-community-engagement-classification.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>Another national honor for Service Learning
program</strong><br>
The university was&#xA0;recently named to the President&apos;s Higher
Education Community Service Honor Roll, the highest federal honor
universities can receive for their commitment to service learning
and civic engagement. . . . <a href="../7/csumb-recognized-service-learning.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>Help RON count the bird</strong>s<br>
Volunteers will be out at 7 a.m., Saturday, Jan. 17, looking for
hawks, geese, ducks, wrens and a variety of other species at the
Watershed Institute&#x2019;s 10th annual winter bird count at Upper Carr
Lake in Salinas. Everyone is welcome to help during the three-hour
count.&#x2028;&#x2028; . . . <a href="../6/help-ron-count-birds.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>President&apos;s Speaker Series continues Jan.
30</strong><br>
&quot;America Fast Forward?: Demographic Shifts, Economic Challenges,
and the Future of California&quot; will be the topic addressed by
University of Southern California professor Manuel Pastor on Jan.
30, when the President&apos;s Speaker Series resumes at Cal State
Monterey Bay. . . . <a href="america-fast-forward.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>
<p><strong>College students aren&#x2019;t the only ones being educated at
Cal State Monterey Bay</strong><br>
What do Hamlet, Flannery O&#x2019;Connor and music&#x2019;s Romantic Period have
in common?&#xA0;They are among a diverse range of classes that will
be offered in the spring through the Osher Lifelong Learning
Institute &#x2013; OLLI &#x2013; at California State University, Monterey Bay.
The courses and speakers are specifically geared for those 50 and
better. . . . <a href="../../../2014/dec/18/college-seniors.html" rel="nofollow">continue reading</a></br></p>





