---
slug: 415-csumb-professor-at-tedx-monterey
title: "4/15: CSUMB professor at TEDx Monterey"
date: January 01 2020
---

<h2>Professor Dan Fernandez among the speakers</h2><p>Dr. Dan Fernandez, chair of the Division of Science and Environmental Policy at CSUMB, will be among the speakers at TEDx Monterey on April 15 at the Monterey Institute of International Studies. The conference will run from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Dr. Fernandez will make his presentation about 2:15 p.m.
</p><p>This year’s theme is “Cultivating Innovation.” According to conference organizers, the lineup of speakers and presenters will be true to the TED promise of “riveting talks by remarkable people.”
</p><p>TEDx conferences take their name and format – which features notable speakers spotlighting “ideas worth spreading” in 18-minute segments – from the internationally renowned TED conference (Technology Education Design). The TED organization licenses local groups to organize their own events under the TEDx banner.
</p><p>Dr. Fernandez has taught physics at CSUMB since 1996. One of his research areas – and the subject of his TEDx presentation – involves extraction and measurement of water from fog. This research has the potential to offer a small-scale, low-tech method of water collection in low-precipitation regions that experience a lot of foggy days.
</p><p>As an advocate of sustainable living, he serves as co-chair of the Presidents’ Climate Commitment group at CSUMB, and is co-chair of the Monterey County Business Council’s Green Building Competitive Cluster.
</p><p>Dr. Fernandez organizes and coordinates Focus the Region, an annual free, public environmental symposium at CSUMB which brings together leaders, authors, activists, entrepreneurs, educators and students to focus on ways to mitigate the impacts of climate change.
</p><p>Tickets are no longer available, but the conference can be viewed online at <a href="http://www.tedxmonterey.org/livestream" title="www.tedxmonterey.org/livestream">www.tedxmonterey.org/livestream</a>.
</p><p>Other speakers include: • Aaron Ebner, student and leader of the Team Peru project at MIIS • Andrew Hargadon, UC Davis management professor and author of How Breakthroughs Happen: The Surprising Truth About How Companies Innovate • Julio Toribo Kancho, founder and chief instructor of Seibukan Jujutsu at the Monterey Budokan and Seibukan Honbu Dojo • Beryl Levinger, chair of the Master’s in Public Administration program at the Monterey Institute • Seth Linden, founder of Tutorpedia and the Tutorpedia Foundation • Lee Lorenzen, founder of SHOP.com, CEO of Altura Ventures • Sujata Millick, visiting researcher, cyber security expert at Hewlett-Packard Labs • Andrea Olsen, professor of environmental studies and dance at Middlebury College and author of Body and Earth, An Experiential Guide • Jennifer Perlmutter, artist • F. Noel Perry, venture capitalist, social entrepreneur, philanthropist, and founder of Next 10 • Alyssum Pohl, Monterey Institute student and dancer • Margarita Quihuis, social entrepreneur, mentor capitalist, member of the Stanford Persuasive Technology Lab • Shinsho-Mugen Daiko, a troupe that performs Japanese Taiko drumming • E.J. Svensson, media entrepreneur and author of A Decade and A Day
</p>
