---
slug: accounting-students-earn-scholarships
title: "Accounting students earn scholarships"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>Three CSU Monterey Bay business students have been awarded scholarships by the San Jose-Silicon Valley Chapter of the California Society of Certified Public Accountants (CalCPA). The awards were presented Jan. 25 at the organization's Honorees Night in San Jose.
</p><p>Benjamin Oppong-Bio, a senior, earned a prestigious at-large scholarship and a lifetime membership in CalCPA. “There were 70 students from 12 colleges and universities competing for two at-large scholarships,” said CSUMB Professor of Accounting Cathy Ku. “It’s quite an honor.” Jennifer Warner and Mihir Patel were selected as the organization’s outstanding senior and junior, respectively. As the outstanding senior, Warner's name will be engraved on the CalCPA scholarship recipient plaque on display in the office of CSUMB's School of Business. Both receive a one-year membership in CalCPA. The scholarships are based on recommendations from professors and individual achievements. Students from DeAnza, Evergreen, Foothill, Gavilan, Mission, Monterey Peninsula College, San Jose City and West Valley community colleges, as well as CSUMB, UC Santa Cruz, San Jose State and Santa Clara universities were eligible to enter the competition. The California Society of Certified Public Accountants is the nation’s largest statewide association of CPAs. Founded in 1909, CalCPA represents over 34,000 members. The organization’s Silicon Valley/San Jose chapter has awarded nearly $400,000 in scholarships over the last 13 years. At least one CSUMB student has earned a scholarship annually for the last seven years. The School of Business at CSUMB added a concentration in accounting in 2004, offering a full spectrum of classes to meet the CPA requirements. The program has grown steadily and is popular with community college transfer students. <em>Photo courtesy of Cathy Ku (Left to right) Benjamin Oppong-Bio, Jennifer Warner, Dr. Marylou Shockley, Mihir Patel</em>  
</p>
