---
slug: accreditation-process-under-way
title: "Accreditation process under way"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>A team from the Western Association of Schools and Colleges (WASC) concluded its three-day visit to campus on Sept. 18 with a “farewell” meeting open to the campus community.
</p><p>It was the first of several visits required as part of the accreditation process. CSUMB received its initial accreditation in 2003. It must be reaffirmed periodically, and the university has spent the last year preparing for that process. Dr. Mary Cullinan, president of Southern Oregon University, is chair of the WASC group. Its task was to confirm and evaluate the adequacy of university capacity in regard to structures and infrastructures, making possible the achievement of our educational enterprise. “We enjoyed the visit,” Dr. Cullinan told the group that assembled in an auditorium at the Tanimura &amp; Antle Library. “A number of us were on the campus years ago, and it was a thrill to see the changes.” Dr. Cullinan read a list of five commendations, and three recommendations. Among the commendations, she noted the gracious hospitality; the numerous processes, policies and plans put in place since the last WASC report; conservation efforts and thoughtful use of resources; open communication across campus; and the commitment of employees and students to the Vision. The group recommended that the university continue strengthening its feedback loop; prioritize development of academic decision-making processes and governance structure; and be more responsive to WASC requirements. “You are a great university and you’re doing wonderful things,” Dr. Cullinan said. While on campus, the group held separate open forums for students, faculty and staff where they asked for feedback about life at the university.
</p><p>Another visit is scheduled for 2011. Although the accreditation process is a voluntary one, most colleges and universities choose to go through it because accreditation certifies that a school meets established academic standards and has the infrastructure, resources and curriculum to educate students.
</p>
