---
slug: alumni-class-notes
title: "Alumni Class Notes"
date: January 01 2020
---

<h4>2010</h4><p>**KATY BJERKE **(2010, B.A., Visual and Public Art) is the guest services manager and museum store manager at the National Steinbeck Center in Salinas. She has volunteered for the Women Alive! project at Dorothy’s Place and the Chinatown Renewal Project. Her fiancé, Paul VandeCarr (B.A., ’06 Visual and Public Art), is the collections curator at the Pacific Grove Natural History Museum. Bjerke lives in Pacific Grove.
</p><p><strong>DENISSE URIBE</strong> (B.S.,  Business Administration) is a business consultant at the CSUMB Small Business Development Center in Gonzales. She helps small business owners succeed by assisting them with planning and budgeting. Uribe volunteers at the Alisal Center for the Fine Arts, El Sausal Middle School and Saint Theodore’s Church. She and her husband, Raul Mariscal, have a son, Joshua Mariscal, 2. They live in Gonzales.
</p><h4>2009</h4><p><strong>ROBERT CAMPBELL</strong> (B.S., Business Administration) is a financial adviser for Merrill Lynch. His duties include financial planning and portfolio management for high net worth individuals. He’s a member of the Rotary Club of Seattle and volunteers for a PGA professional who runs a children’s golf camp each summer. Campbell lives in Seattle.
</p><h4>2008</h4><p><strong>LAUREN STROUD</strong> (B.A., Social &amp; Behavioral Sciences) is a help-desk coordinator at the Defense Manpower Data Center in Seaside. She earned an M.S. in public safety with a specialization in criminal justice from Capella University in 2010. She’s pursuing a certificate in interdisciplinary forensics from the same institution. Stroud lives in Marina.
</p><p><strong>BRITNEA MOORE</strong> (B.A., Human Communications) is the youth program coordinator and AAU  eighth-grade basketball coach at the downtown Berkeley YMCA. She develops programs to engage youth in the community and help them develop interest and skills in sports, arts, music and education. Moore lives in Hayward.
</p><p><strong>DANA MALDONADO</strong> (B.A., Teledramatic Arts &amp; Technology) expects to graduate with an M.A. in theatre arts from San José State this year. She’s a volunteer at the Cinequest Film Festival 2011. Maldonado lives in San Jose.
</p><p>**BEN MAYBERRY **(B.A., Integrated Studies) is a graphic designer for the San Francisco 49ers football team. With his brother, they own a part-time business venture called Bay Area Die Hards, an online sports apparel store. As a volunteer, Mayberry plans to work with the Jr. Giants program, sponsored by the San Francisco Giants. He enjoys helping local youth baseball and football programs that help kids learn and grow through sports. Mayberry lives in San Jose.
</p><p><strong>KENDRA MILLER</strong> (B.S., Kinesiology) is the lead marketer for women’s soccer, basketball and lacrosse in the athletics department of Fresno State University. Miller earned an M.A. in kinesiology from San José State in 2009. She volunteers as head of the Jr. Bulldog’s Kid’s Club. Miller lives in Fresno.
</p><p><strong>BRONWYNN LLOYD</strong> (B.A., Social &amp; Behavioral) is a marketing assistant at Berkeley Communications,  where she creates and manages marketing communication materials for clients. In 2010 she earned an MSc in paleopathology from Durham University in the United Kingdom. Lloyd is a member of the American Association of Physical Anthropologists and the Paleopathology Association. She lives in Alameda.
</p><p><strong>ERIK GREEN</strong> (B.A., Teledramatic Arts &amp; Technology) is an assistant editor and second camera operator for the History Channel’s “American Restoration” series. As a digital media specialist, he previously worked with Disney Channel promos, reality shows and feature films. He’s engaged to Beth Danna (B.S., ’08 Business). Green lives in Las Vegas.
</p><h4>2007</h4><p><strong>REN HERRING</strong> (B.S., Business Administration) is a publicist at Rubenstein Public Relations in New York. He supports the firm’s clients by developing media relation campaigns and strategic communications plans.  On a volunteer basis, he teaches public relations and social media to seventh- and eighthgraders at a public school in the Bronx. Herring lives in New York City.
</p><p><strong>CHRISTIN GRICE</strong> (B.A., Social &amp; Behavioral Sciences) is a marriage  and family therapist intern at Chamberlain’s Mental Health Services, and a relief counselor at Caminar. He earned an M.A. in  counseling psychology, with a couple and family therapy specialization, from John F. Kennedy University in 2010. Grice lives in San Jose.
</p><p>**KRYSTLYN (PEAIRSLARSON) GIEDT **(B.S., Telecommunications, Multimedia, &amp; Applied Computing) is the owner of KG Graphix. She designs logos, marketing materials and websites for clients. Giedt also volunteers for the Monterey Bay User Group (MBUG), where she offers free Google  presentations and workshops. She lives in Seaside with her husband, Tim Giedt.
</p><h4>2006</h4><p><strong>RAM PAUL SILBEY</strong> (B.A., Teledramatic Arts &amp; Technology) is a freelance producer, assistant  director and director. His duties vary from show to show, depending on the needs of a given project. He’s engaged to Kristina Renelli (B.A., ’06 Liberal Studies). Silbey volunteers his technical talents to help students with their film projects, similar to Capstone projects at CSUMB. He lives in Burbank.
</p><p><strong>DAVID BAWIEC</strong> (B.S., Telecommunications, Multimedia, &amp; Applied Computing) is an animation and video specialist at Northrop Grumman Corporation. He creates 3D animation, video and interactive multimedia productions for tradeshow and customer presentations. Bawiec is a volunteer scuba diver for the Monterey Bay Aquarium and an Adopt-a-Beach leader. He’s engaged to Lauren Foote (B.A., ’08 Liberal Studies). Bawiec lives in Sunnyvale.
</p><p><strong>AMBER (KHTEIAN) MCCARTHY</strong> (B.A., Teledramatic Arts &amp; Technology) is a first grade English teacher at public and private schools in Thailand. In 2009, she earned a teaching credential from CSUMB. When she lived in California, she volunteered for Animal Friends Rescue Project and Trips for Kids, an after school biking program. Married to Joseph McCarthy, she lives in Surat Thani, Thailand.
</p><h4>2005</h4><p>**MAC CLEMMENS **(B.S., Telecommunications, Multimedia, &amp; Applied Computing) is the CEO of Digital Deployment, Inc., a company he started in 2004 while still a student at CSUMB. The company’s services include website development, corporate branding and marketing services. Clients include Google, California Faculty Association, California Hospital Association and California Bankers Association. He earned an MBA from UC Davis in 2007. Clemmens lives in Sacramento.
</p><p><strong>JOHN CHARTER</strong> (B.A., Teledramatic Arts &amp; Technology) is a freelance producer and editor for clients such as ESPN Action Sports and Red Bull. He also directs music videos for upcoming bands in the Los Angeles area and has volunteered his technical talents to work on the crews of various public service commercials. Charter lives in Hollywood.
</p><p><strong>JUSTIN BLOCH</strong> (B.A., Teledramatic Arts &amp; Technology) is the lead assistant editor at the West Coast headquarters of the Discovery Channel. After an episode is shot, he organizes and groups the footage before the project goes into editing.  When visiting San Diego, Bloch volunteers his time to help at an orphanage in Tijuana, Mexico. He lives in Van Nuys.
</p><h4>2004</h4><p>**JESSICA (NIXON) LOEPER **(B.A., Social &amp; Behavioral Sciences) is a project manager at the  Leonardo Academy, a non-profit organization dedicated to advancing sustainability. Previously a city planner for the city of Anaheim, Loeper consults with building owners on energysaving LEED  (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) projects. She earned a master’s degree in urban and regional planning from UC Irvine. Loeper and her husband, Paul Loeper, have a son, Charlie, 18 months. They live in Madison, Wis.
</p><h4>2003</h4><p><strong>DOUGLAS MUELLER</strong> (B.A., Teledramatic Arts &amp; Technology) is production manager for the Carmel Bach Festival. He’s also a documentary filmmaker, having recently produced “Prairie Love,” which had its world premiere in the Sundance Film Festival’s NEXT competition. The film was shot in North Dakota in sub-zero weather. It was one of eight films selected for its innovative and original work on a budget of less than $500,000. He’s married to Malinda DeRouen (B.A., ’04 Teledramatic Arts &amp; Technology). With their son, Leonard James Mueller, 6 months, they live in Monterey.
</p><p><strong>JASON MANSOUR</strong> (B.S., Earth Systems Science &amp; Policy) is a commissioned officer with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Corps of the Department of Commerce. Previously an aircraft commander in that service, Mansour in January was appointed flag aide to Dr. Jane Lubchenco, undersecretary of commerce for NOAA in Washington, D.C. While stationed in Monterey, he volunteered as an executive board member of Camp SEA Lab, which offers marine-oriented programs to promote science, education and adventure for youth and teachers. Mansour lives in Fairfax, Va.
</p><h4>2002</h4><p>**TANIA LEISTEN **(B.S., Earth Systems Science &amp; Policy) is an environmental protection specialist at the U.S. Army Presidio of Monterey. She’s responsible for managing the facility’s storm water, air, asbestos and noise programs. Leisten also assists in leading Earth Day activities for the installation and promotes environmental awareness and education. Leisten lives in Monterey with her 6-year-old English Mastiff named Hercules.
</p><h4>2001</h4><p><strong>MICHAEL BOGAN</strong> (B.S., Earth Systems Science &amp; Policy) works off site as a staff research associate for the UCSB Sierra Nevada Aquatic Research Lab in Mammoth Lakes. Seeking a Ph.D. at Oregon State University, he expects to graduate this year and pursue postdoctoral research to prepare for a university teaching career. He also works as a graduate teaching and research assistant. A frequent visitor to Mexico, Bogan volunteers at a state college in Hermosillo. He helps the college obtain grants to buy equipment and train students  in aquatic ecology and insect taxonomy. Bogan built an “eco” house near Kingman, in rural Mojave County, Ariz.,  which is self-sufficient with its own solar power and rainwater harvesting. It serves as his home when he’s not in Oregon.
</p><p><strong>AMY (LAUDER) ERICKSON</strong> (B.A., Liberal  Studies) is a field naturalist for Inside the Outdoors, a   program of the Orange County Department of Education. She teaches science, in natural settings, to students from grades K-5 at county and state parks. She earned a teaching credential in 2006. In 2009, she married Chris Erickson, and the couple lives in Pacific Palisades.
</p><h4>2000</h4><p><strong>MIKE CASTLETON</strong> (B.S., Earth Systems Science &amp; Policy) is a research technician at Stanford University’s Hopkins Marine Station in Pacific Grove. His research work involves the tracking and tagging of tuna, shark, turtles and marlin. Castleton has volunteered as a reading tutor for the Monterey County Free Libraries. He lives in Monterey.
</p><h4>1999</h4><p><strong>RUDY PUENTE</strong> (B.A., Liberal Studies) is a counselor and co-coordinator of the Puente Project at Cabrillo College. He provides academic counseling to students seeking occupational and two-year degrees and those wishing to transfer to four-year universities.  The Puente Project is a program that provides counseling services to underserved students wishing to attend four-year universities. Puente earned an M.A. in counselor education and a pupil personnel services credential in counselor education from San José State. He’s married to Nancy Puente, also an educator. They have two children, Marcos, 6, and Andrea, 3. The family lives in Watsonville.
</p><h4>1998</h4><p><strong>JOEL ALEXANDER</strong> (B.S., Management and International Entrepreneurship) is self-employed as a licensed real estate and insurance broker. He volunteers for the YMCA, is scholarship administrator for the Alcala Scholarship Fund and is a traffic safety volunteer for Cali Calmecac Charter School. He and his wife, Irma Alexander, have a son, Robert, 7. They live in Santa Rosa.
</p><h4>1997</h4><p><strong>ASHANTI THOMPSON</strong> (B.A., Teledramatic Arts &amp; Technology) is a security officer with the Transportation Security Administration at Monterey Peninsula Airport. She earned an M.S. in entertainment business from Full Sail University in 2010 and is an intern at the Digital Media Learning Foundation in Santa  Cruz. Thompson lives in Marina.  
</p>
