---
slug: annual-dia-de-los-padres-in-salinas
title: "Annual Dia de Los Padres in Salinas"
date: January 01 2020
---

<h3>Spanish-speaking families invited to March 12 event</h3><p>California State University, Monterey Bay invites the Spanish-speaking parents of incoming and prospective students to Dia de Los Padres, a reception and information session to be held Saturday, March 12 from 9 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. at the Boys and Girls Club in Salinas. This event is co-hosted by Monterey County Office of Education, Migrant Education, Region XVI.
</p><p>The event is aimed at parents of students who have been admitted to CSU Monterey Bay for the fall of 2011 from Monterey, Santa Cruz and San Benito counties, as well as parents of high school students who are interested in learning more about the university. The event will be held at the Boys and Girls Club, 85 Maryal Dr. Continental breakfast will be available from 8 to 9:30 a.m.; lunch will be served afterward. Staff members of the university’s recruitment, admissions, outreach and support programs, housing and financial aid offices as well as several faculty members will be on hand to make presentations and answer questions in Spanish. Staff members from the MCOE’s Migrant Education Office will also be on hand. During the event, MCOE will provide activities for younger children. More information is available from CSUMB Admissions Counselor Maria Ceja at 582-3738, or from MCOE Director of Migrant Education Rosa Coronado at 755-6403. “This event is about building a bridge with the Spanish-speaking community” said David Linnevers, CSUMB’s director of admissions and recruitment. “We are excited to be back in Salinas and to continue our close partnership with Migrant Education (Region 16) and the Boys and Girls Club.” Those interested in attending are asked to RSVP by March 4. Registration can be completed online at <a href="http://admissions.csumb.edu/dia-de-los-padres-spanish-reception" title="http://admissions.csumb.edu/dia-de-los-padres-spanish-reception">http://admissions.csumb.edu/dia-de-los-padres-spanish-reception</a>
</p>
