---
slug: asian-cultural-center-will-have-national-significance-speaker-says
title: "Asian Cultural Center will have national significance, speaker says"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>The Speakers Bureau provides speakers at no cost to service clubs, schools, senior centers, and other groups in the local area.</p><p>Booking a speaker is easy. Just e-mail your request to the CSUMB Public Information Officer.</p><p>CSUMB faculty and staff members are currently offering talks on the following topics:</p><h4>Research at CSUMB: Why we do it and what it means for the Monterey Bay region</h4><p>Researchers at the university bring in millions of dollars in grants. Those funds create jobs and support the development of new knowledge. We’re eager to discuss economic development and to share ideas for cooperation and collaboration between the university and industry.
</p><p>Presented by a university administrator.
</p><h4>From ‘You’ve got to be kidding!’ to ‘Ah-ha!’ – hope for our oceans through insight and innovation</h4><p>The talk discusses innovative ways to address the unprecedented threats of climate change, sea level rise, ocean acidification, pollution, fishery declines, coastal erosion, algal blooms and storm intensification on the coastal oceans and communities.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Rikk Kvitek
</p><h4>Peeling back the blue: how we map and use 3D visualization to reveal and learn from Earth’s hidden seafloor landscapes</h4><p>Although the global ocean is the driver of weather, a highway for marine commerce, a reservoir of vast marine resources, and our playground, we know more about distant planets than we do about the seafloor. Imagine if the next time you were standing at the ocean's edge that instead of watching crashing waves, you were able to visualize submarine canyons, underwater seamounts and ridges, and even a kelp forest teeming with marine life. The State of California has undertaken a cutting&#45;edge project to make this possible by mapping the seafloor of all the state's waters. Dr. Kvitek will show you the first images created from this effort and share with you how this new information is already being used in a multitude of ways.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Rikk Kvitek
</p><h4>Science with a mission at CSUMB</h4><p>The CSUMB Science Division includes experts from both terrestrial and marine realms. Their common mission is to use sound science to solve environmental problems in the tri&#45;county area. They use cutting&#45;edge technology and student power for the good of the community.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Doug Smith
</p><h4>San Clemente Dam removal</h4><p>San Clemente Dam will be removed from the Carmel River to reduce the risk of dam failure and to foster the historic salmon run. This large&#45;scale project will have long&#45;term impacts on the watershed, and could be a model for other dam removal projects in California.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Doug Smith
</p><h4>Water resources on the Monterey Peninsula</h4><p>People on the coast between Carmel and Seaside have been seeking a sustainable water resource for decades. The search has been fraught with technical, political and legal pitfalls. What are the technical solutions? What are the political/legal constraints? What's the latest plan?
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Doug Smith
</p><h4>The geology of coastal Monterey county: resource opportunities and geological hazards</h4><p>Wherever you stand, there is a stack of rocks below your feet that records the local geological history and governs the kind of urban development that is suited to the region. We will consider the water resources and environmental hazards of our region. Water is scarce, and urban expansion is locally constrained by coastal erosion, landslides and hill slope erosion potential.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Doug Smith
</p><h4>Institute For Applied Marine Ecology (IFAME)</h4><p>The primary goal of the IfAME is to provide science in support of government decision&#45;making ranging from local municipalities to state, federal and international governments. That science includes monitoring the new state marine protected areas along California's coast, exploring the resources of National Marine Sanctuaries from Monterey to New England, studying the impact of commercial bottom trawling on seafloor habitats around the world, and diving from the world's only undersea laboratory in the Florida Keys. The closely linked secondary goal is to involve CSUMB students in the conduct of this research.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. James Lindholm
</p><h4>Math, revealed – Cracking the mysteries of math for youngsters</h4><p>New research examining thousands of students in two dozen California school districts finds that students already doing well in math in the seventh grade are more likely to take advanced math courses in high school and meet college entrance requirements. But for many students who struggle with math in grade seven, there is no clear path to learning and achievement. CSUMB math professor Hongde Hu uses math games, engaging presentations and curriculum he has been refining for years to reach those youngsters.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Hongde Hu
</p><h4>Innovation in higher education</h4><p>Higher education is facing challenges in an era of increased demand, changing demographics and declining state support. American colleges and universities will need to adopt new educational approaches and technologies to serve more students while maintaining quality. CSUMB is addressing this through a variety of ways: a new three&#45;year computer science degree developed in partnership with Hartnell College; creation of an Institute for Innovation and Economic Development; and exploring the potential to use technology for online programs.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Eric Tao
</p><h4>Eyewitness memory</h4><p>Eyewitnesses are notoriously bad in the identification of the perpetrator of a crime. If you witness a crime, can you be sure that your memory for that event is accurate? Not really. Scientific evidence explains that memory changes over time, is malleable and is easy to manipulate via suggestibility and misattribution. Find out why eyewitnesses are so bad at remembering details of the crime and in the identification of the perpetrator.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Jill Yamashita
</p><h4>Creating memories for events that never happened</h4><p>False memories are the remembering of events that never took place. Memory is easily manipulated and can change without our awareness. Memory research shows that it is easy to create false memories &#40;for example, a memory of getting lost in the mall&#41;. One of the issues with false memory is that you cannot tell the difference between a false memory and a real one.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Jill Yamashita
</p><h4>They all look the same: the other-race effect</h4><p>The other&#45;race effect is a deficit in the ability to recognize or identify a face that is of a different race. You might hear a child say, “All of the faces look the same,” which is common response when looking at faces of an unfamiliar or different race. I examine what influences the other&#45;race effect and what helps to minimize this effect.
</p><p>Presented by  Dr. Jill Yamashita
</p><h4>A vision for service: At CSUMB, giving back is a core value</h4><p>CSUMB has won national acclaim for integrating community service with each student’s academic experience, and is changing lives – and our ideas about learning and community – in the process
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Seth Pollack
</p><h4>Mexican entrepreneurs: a new look to immigration</h4><p>Immigrants aren’t always who you think they are.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Juan Gutierrez
</p><h4>Creating customer loyalty</h4><p>John Avella, head of CSUMB’s hospitality program, has 40 years of human resource development and teaching experience in the hospitality industry. He has been vice president of human resources for Marriott Corporation, The Rainbow Room and Windows on the World, and president of Human Resource Concepts. His work focused on management and executive development, Customer service and organizational strategic change. He has studied the application of emotional intelligence to customer service/loyalty, emotional labor and leadership. He has developed a process that teaches people to “connect” to the customer.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. John Avella
</p><h4>The region’s hospitality industry – what’s ahead?</h4><p>The lingering effects of the recession and looming water problems are just two issues facing the local tourism/hospitality industry. What’s on the horizon?
</p><p>Presented by Dr. John Avella
</p><h4>Sustainable hospitality management</h4><p>Presented by Dr. John Avella
</p><h4>Kinesiology gains in popularity</h4><p>Kinesiology – the study of human movement – is the fastest&#45;growing major on campus. As the U.S. population skews older – and fatter – there’s a demand for fitness trainers, physical therapists and researchers who study the science of movement and performance. Dr. Kent Adams, a prolific researcher as well as head of the kinesiology department, shares his findings to help people keep fit across the lifespan.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Kent Adams
</p><h4>Nursing program will meet a need</h4><p>The health care industry is coping with the “silver tsunami” of aging baby boomers, combined with the impact of health care reform. Nurses will play a big role in meeting both challenges, but will need more than a two&#45;year degree to do so. CSUMB has partnered with four community colleges in the region to offer a four&#45;year degree that prepares them to serve as health care navigators, helping patients manage multiple conditions such as hypertension and diabetes outside a hospital setting.
</p><p>Presented by Marianne Hultgren
</p><h4>Unraveling standardized testing and evaluation</h4><p>Mark O’Shea, a professor education at CSUMB, has been studying the standards movement from the perspective of the classroom teacher for years. He has conducted extensive clinical research in standards&#45;based education and has consulted with school districts and state departments of education. He can also talk about the new Common Core standards – he helped state officials develop the science standards – and their implementation in California.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Mark O’Shea
</p><h4>Digging through time</h4><p>Dr. Ruben Mendoza is an archaeologist, writer, and photographer who has explored the length and breadth of Mexico, Central America, Europe, and the U.S. Southwest documenting both pre&#45;Columbian and Colonial era sites and collections. He has directed major archaeological investigations and conservation projects at missions San Juan Bautista, Carmel, and Nuestra Señora de la Soledad, among others. Recent efforts at the Royal Presidio of Monterey resulted in the tandem discovery of the earliest Serra era Christian houses of worship in California dated to 1770 and 1771. And he has made astronomically and liturgically significant discoveries of solstice, equinox, and feast day solar illuminations of mission church altars throughout California, the U.S. Southwest, and Mesoamerica.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Ruben Mendoza
</p><h4>Osher Lifelong Learning Institute is bringing seniors back to school</h4><p>Are you sitting on an idea for the next great American novel and don't know how to begin? Would you like to understand contemporary art? Ever wonder where our special brand of weather comes from? Would you like to know the history of Cannery Row? Then the Osher Lifelong Learning Institute &#40;OLLI@CSUMB&#41; is the place for you. These are just some of the topics that have been covered in courses that range from one day to eight weeks during the Fall and Spring semesters each year. For adults age 50 or better and funded in part by the Bernard Osher Foundation, many of our courses are taught by CSUMB professors. There are no test and no grades, just good fun and great fellowship with friends and neighbors in our region. Learn how and why OLLI@CSUMB came into being and how it has evolved to reflect the interests of our adult learners.
</p><p>Presented by Michele Crompton
</p><h4>Summer arts</h4><p>Sword fights, improvisational comedy, animation, painting: Summer school was never this much fun. Several hundred students – high school, college, and adult members of the local community – come to the university in July for the annual CSU Summer Arts program. The longtime CSU program relocated to CSUMB in the summer of 2012 for a five&#45;year run. The program includes a couple of dozen public events, including lectures, readings, concerts and theatrical productions – in other words, the area’s summer arts scene has gotten a lot more interesting.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Ilene Feinman
</p><h4>CSUMB goes green</h4><p>People across campus are working on many fronts to make Cal State Monterey Bay a more sustainable university. We developed a Climate Action Plan that will provide a road map for eliminating greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and Issues surrounding sustainability are addressed in many classes. We've also have a robust alternative transportation program in place. Mike Lerch, CSUMB's Manager of Energy and Utilities, can speak to the many energy efficiency upgrades on campus &#40;that have cut our energy use 20% and reduced our carbon footprint.
</p><p>Presented by Mike Lerch, CSUMB’s associate director of facilities services and operations
</p><h4>Art in the service of science</h4><p>Science illustration is all around us – in books, magazines, posters, on websites, in films and TV, and in museums. Most of us don’t notice the extraordinary technical skill, the precision and carefully observed detail, or the beauty of these illustrations because we’re busy absorbing information from them. CSUMB is home to a nationally renowned science illustration program; graduates’ work is in the Smithsonian Institution, the Los Angeles Museum of Natural History; in top science magazines such as National Geographic, Scientific American, Nature and Audubon; at the National Zoo, in Washington, D.C., and the Monterey Bay Aquarium.
</p><p>Presented by Jenny Keller
</p><h4>Athletics at CSUMB</h4><p>CSUMB is dedicated to building champions, one victory at a time &#45;&#45; in our community, in the classroom and in competition. The university fields 12 teams competing at the NCAA Division II level. It has earned a national title in men’s golf, and a number of California Collegiate Athletic Association titles.
</p><p>Presented by Kirby Garry, athletic director
</p><h4>Master of social work program meets local demand</h4><p>CSUMB now offers a Master of Social Work program, created in collaboration with community partners to address a shortage of social workers with graduate degrees in the region.
</p><p>Presented by Lisa Stewar
</p><h4>Family dynamics</h4><p>Dr. Rob Weisskirch, a professor of human development, can talk about a number of topics including:
</p><h4>Communicating online</h4><p>How do you present your business or yourself online? Liz MacDonald addresses how to develop a content strategy that works across websites, social media platforms and emerging technologies. The end result is clear, organized information that helps you reach your audiences, and helps your users make the most of the services you provide.
</p><p>Presented by Liz MacDonald, web user experience specialist
</p><h4>Developing business models for new ventures</h4><p>The focus of creating new businesses has changed from writing a business plan to creating a business model. This talk tells what it takes to develop a killer business model &#45; and how to do it.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Brad Barbeau
</p><h4>Funding for startups – the ABC's</h4><p>New opportunities for raising funding are emerging in online crowdfunding. When should a startup use angels, banks, and crowdfunding? This talk covers the latest developments in venture funding and where they fit into the founder's toolkit for fundraising.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Brad Barbeau
</p><h4>The current state of the economy</h4><p>A discussion of current economic data and its meaning for business.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Brad Barbeau
</p><p>In case of local emergency, up-to-date information will be available to members of the CSUMB community by calling the public information phone line, 582-5044.

</p><p>For information on what to do in case of emergency, visit the <a href="https://csumb.edu/police/emergency&#45;management">Emergency Management</a> website.
</p><h2><a href='http://www.facebook.com/CSUMB'>Facebook</a></h2><p>"Like" us to keep up with campus news and events, ask questions, make comments, see photos and videos, and interact with CSUMB students, alumni, staff and faculty.</p><h2><a href='https://twitter.com/#!/csumb'>Twitter</a></h2><p>Follow us on Twitter to keep up with the campus buzz, 140 characters at a time. We post news and events, Q&amp;As, pics, links, community RTs and other fun stuff.</p><h2><a href='http://instagram.com/csumb'>Instagram</a></h2><p>Follow along and see what is happening on campus. Follow us on Instagram just search CSUMB.</p><h2><a href='https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCgds89PGe1OLf_n10bCyLrQ'>Youtube</a></h2><p>You'll find student interviews and testimonials and videos featuring our academic programs, campus life, events and more. If you like what you see, subscribe!</p><h2><a href='http://www.linkedin.com/company/csu-monterey-bay'>LinkedIn</a></h2><p>Check out our company profile to network with Otters. Join the <a href="http://www.linkedin.com/groups?gid=2258229&amp;trk=hb_side_g">group</a> to find job postings, career advice and other opportunities.</p><h2><a href='http://www.flickr.com/csumb'>Flickr</a></h2><p>Hundreds of photos of campus buildings, student life, special events and more. Need an image? Many of our pics are licensed through Creative Commons for public use, and if not, just ask us. Plus, share your CSUMB-related images in our group.</p><h2><a href='https://plus.google.com/b/116450431918642362289/116450431918642362289/posts'>Google+</a></h2><p>Add California State University, Monterey Bay to your Google+ circles. More news and events, campus pics, and social chatter among students and university folk.</p><p>Cal State Monterey Bay has an active and engaged faculty, staff and student body, and we love interactive ways to connect and share information online. The university encourages its faculty, staff and students to use tools such as social media to advance their work and heighten their experience as members of the campus community.
</p><p>In an effort to give direction when using social media, University Communications has developed the following guidelines. These guidelines are not intended for Internet activities that do not associate or identify a faculty or staff member with CSUMB, do not use CSUMB email addresses, do not discuss CSUMB and are purely about personal matters.
</p><h2>What is social media?</h2><p>We consider social media any technology tool or online space for integrating and sharing user&#45;generated content in order to engage in conversations. These guidelines do not attempt to name every current and emerging platform, but some examples are Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, YouTube and Instagram.
</p><h3>If you post/manage a social media account on behalf of Cal State Monterey Bay:</h3><p><strong>Be connected.</strong> If you have been authorized by your supervisor to create a CSUMB social media site or a video for posting in locations such as YouTube, please contact University Communications for an approved logo and other images and to ensure coordination with other CSUMB sites and content. Social media channels are not considered official unless they are developed or authorized by University Communications, which maintains and publicizes a list of all official university social media channels.
</p><p>As the administrator of a CSUMB social media channel, you accept the responsibility for maintaining current and accurate content and monitoring and moderating posts to that channel, including deleting comments and posts that do not meet the criteria set forth in these guidelines.
</p><p><strong>Be respectful.</strong> As a CSUMB employee or representative, you should be mindful of the university’s public mission as a forum for thoughtful discussion of opposing ideas. Some online communities can be volatile, tempting users to behave in ways they otherwise wouldn’t. Your reputation, and CSUMB's, are best served when you remain above the fray.
</p><p><strong>Be responsive.</strong> If a question or comment is directed toward you via your social media site or page, you should do your best to reply in a timely and appropriate fashion. If the comment is a complaint or critique, follow these tips to resolve the situation: <a href="http://www.socialmediaexaminer.com/7&#45;tips&#45;for&#45;dealing&#45;with&#45;upset&#45;facebook&#45;fans/">http://www.socialmediaexaminer.com/7&#45;tips&#45;for&#45;dealing&#45;with&#45;upset&#45;faceboo...</a>
</p><p><strong>Be transparent.</strong> If you participate in or maintain a social media site on behalf of the university, clearly state your role and goals. Discuss with your supervisor when you are empowered to respond directly to users and when you may need approval.
</p><p><strong>Be thoughtful.</strong> Before you jump into a discussion thread or respond to a posting, think about the implications. Will your response stimulate positive discussion, provide new information or insight, or inflame? If you have any questions about whether it’s appropriate to enter into a social media discussion or write about certain kinds of material in your role as a CSUMB employee, ask your supervisor before you post or contact University Communications.
</p><p><strong>Know the rules.</strong> Comply with FERPA, the CSUMB honor code and policies related to Conflict of Interest, Privacy, Security, Safety, Intellectual Property, Computing and Technology Resources, and Human Resources. Become familiar with the terms of service and policies of sites and networks in which you participate. Pay attention to updates. If the legal language is hard to follow, follow a respected blogger or two who discuss service changes in their posts.
</p><p>You are responsible for gaining the expressed consent of all involved parties for the right to distribution or publication of recordings, photos, images, video, text, slideshow presentations, artwork and advertisements whether those rights are purchased or obtained without compensation.
</p><p><strong>Keep your personal views separate</strong>. Uphold the university’s mission and values in your activities. Don’t include political or personal comments. This includes changes to your photo or avatar in relation to political or social issues. Do not use CSUMB's name to promote or endorse any product, cause, or political party or candidate.
</p><h3>Personal site guidelines</h3><p><strong>Be authentic</strong>. Be honest about your identity. In personal posts, you may identify yourself as a CSUMB faculty or staff member, but please be clear that you are sharing your personal views, not representing CSUMB. This parallels media relations practices at CSUMB.
</p><p>A common practice among individuals who write about the industry in which they work is to include a disclaimer on their site, usually on their “About Me” page. If you discuss higher education on your own social media site, we suggest you include a sentence similar to this: “The views expressed on this &#91;blog, Web site&#93; are mine alone and do not necessarily reflect the views of CSUMB.”
</p><p><strong>Don’t be a mole.</strong> Never pretend to be someone else and post about CSUMB. Tracking tools enable supposedly anonymous posts to be traced back to their authors. There have been several high&#45;profile and embarrassing cases of company executives anonymously posting about their own organizations.
</p><p><strong>Take the high ground.</strong> If you identify your affiliation with CSUMB in your comments, readers will associate you with the university, even with the disclaimer that your views are your own. Remember that you’re most likely to build a high&#45;quality following if you discuss ideas and situations civilly.
</p><p><strong>Be aware of liability.</strong> You are legally liable for what you post on your own site and on the sites of others. Follow the same CSUMB honor code, FERPA, Conflict of Interest Policy, Privacy and general civil behavior guidelines cited above including respecting copyrights and disclosures, and not revealing proprietary financial, intellectual property or similar sensitive or private content. Individual bloggers have been held liable for commentary deemed to be proprietary, copyrighted, defamatory, libelous or obscene &#40;as defined by the courts&#41;.
</p><p><strong>Remember that all content contributed on all platforms becomes immediately searchable and can be immediately shared.</strong> This content leaves the contributing individual faculty/staff/students members’ control forever. Employers are increasingly conducting Web searches on job candidates before extending offers. Be sure that what you post today will not come back to haunt you.
</p><p><strong>Follow a code of ethics.</strong> There are numerous codes of ethics for bloggers and other active participants in social media, all of which will help you participate responsibly in online communities. If you have your own social media site, you may wish to post your own code of ethics or adapt an existing code already on the Web. Monitor comments. Most people who maintain social media sites welcome comments; it builds credibility and community. However, you can set your site so that you can review and approve comments before they appear. This allows you to respond to comments in a timely way. It also allows you to delete spam comments and to block any individuals who repeatedly post offensive or frivolous comments.
</p><p><strong>Share and link back.</strong> Please share content posted on official CSUMB social media channels across your personal networks, and link back from your site to CSUMB.EDU. By virtue of self identifying as part of CSUMB in such a network, faculty/staff/students connect themselves to, and reflect upon, the university.
</p><h4>Learn about the Master&#039;s of Public Policy program at Nov. 7 open house</h4><p>Applications are being accepted for the Master's in Public Policy program at California State University, Monterey Bay.
</p><p>The MPP program is a partnership between the university's Department of Health, Human Services and Public Policy and the Leon and Sylvia Panetta Institute for Public Policy. Application deadline is March 1, 2008 for the class that starts next fall. Classes are small, interactive, academically rigorous and professionally focused.
</p><p>To learn more about the program, the public is invited to an open house on Wednesday, Nov. 7 from 5:30 to 7:30 in the Alumni and Visitors Center on campus. Mr. Panetta will be on hand, schedule permitting, to talk about the importance of the program.
</p><p>Courses are offered in the evenings to encourage working professionals to attend. Among the courses offered are: -Congressional and Presidential Politics and Policy -Separate courses on Budget Policy, Health Policy and Social Policy -Money, Media and Influence in Policymaking Environments -Policy Analysis and Public Action in Diverse Communities -Collaborative Leadership and Ethical Policymaking
</p><p>Students currently enrolled in the program come from the management ranks of local governments, educational institutions and non-profit organizations; the broad range of professional backgrounds creates a dynamic learning environment.
</p><p>For more information about the Master's of Public Policy program, visit the web at <a href="http://csumb.edu/mpp;" title="http://csumb.edu/mpp;">http://csumb.edu/mpp;</a> to receive an application packet, call (831) 582-3565 or e-mail <a href="&#x6d;&#97;&#x69;&#x6c;&#116;&#x6f;&#58;&#109;&#x70;&#112;&#64;&#x63;&#115;&#117;&#x6d;&#98;.&#x65;&#100;&#x75;">mpp@csumb.edu</a>
</p><p>Tony Boles has joined California State University, Monterey Bay as associate vice president of Campus Development and Operations.
</p><p>He will oversee campus master planning and building space management, all campus design and construction services, environmental protection and facilities maintenance.
</p><p>" I see coming to the CSU MB as a great opportunity to be part of the growth and development of a new and exciting campus in one of the most beautiful places in the world," Mr. Boles said.
</p><p>He brings 25 years experience in all phases of architectural design work, planning and construction project development for a wide range of private- and public-sector facilities. He comes from Gafcon Construction and Project Management, where he managed the development of a $1.1 billion, 1,700-acre park project in Irvine.
</p><p>Earlier, he was senior deputy director/county architect for the County of San Diego, where he managed the capital improvement and master planning programs. He also served as associate director and construction administrator at San Diego State University, where he oversaw more than $50 million in campus improvement projects.
</p><p>Mr. Boles served in the U. S. Navy's Civil Engineer Corps, where he directed major construction projects throughout the world. He completed his Navy career as the base closure manager for the Marine Corps air stations in El Toro and Tustin.
</p><p>He holds bachelor's and master's degrees in architecture from Cal Poly Pomona and also earned a master's degree in city and regional planning from San Diego State University. He is a registered architect in California.
</p><p>Mr. Boles joined the university on Oct. 18. He replaces Niraj Dangoria, who left CSUMB earlier this year to become assistant dean, facilities planning and management, at Stanford University.
</p><p>Location, location, location.
</p><p>The real estate agents’ mantra may also explain the next undergraduate major to be added to the curriculum at Cal State Monterey Bay.
</p><p>It is location that attracted Elyssa Farmer, a freshman from Pacifica.
</p><p>“As a 10-year-old, I fell in love with the Monterey Bay Aquarium and wanted to become a marine biologist just like the ones at the aquarium,” she said. When it came time to choose a college, she decided on CSUMB because “it’s located next to one of the richest marine regions in the world. Because of that, I figured it would be sensible to study it here.”
</p><p>As faculty member Bill Head, a professor in the Division of Science and Environmental Policy, points out, “When you think of Monterey Bay, you think of marine science.
</p><p>“We have a more concentrated number of marine science institutions here than anywhere in the country.”
</p><p>Marine science has been part of the curriculum almost since the beginning of the university, offered as a concentration called “marine and coastal ecology” within the Environmental Science, Technology and Policy degree program. Courses have been added over the years, including a scientific diving program that was introduced last spring. It filled up in a day-and-a-half.
</p><h5>A new degree is born</h5><p>As soon as the approval process is completed, that concentration – which has by far the largest enrollment of the five available in the ESTP major – will be renamed “marine science” and elevated to a separate program, leading to a bachelor of science degree.
</p><p>Elevating the popular program to degree status meets student demand for a degree with a more recognizable name and serves to make the program more visible and attractive to prospective students.
</p><p>“Our job is to present students with a suite of opportunities,” said Dr. James Lindholm, the Rote Distinguished Professor of Marine Science and Policy. “It’s the Field of Dreams approach – create it and they will come.”
</p><p>And it meets the needs of employers.
</p><p>“Employer surveys show a demand for graduates who can address real-world, interdisciplinary problems and have good technical skills,” said Dr. Marsha Moroh, dean of the College of Science.
</p><p>An important part of the program is the hands-on experience students get with advanced technologies for collecting, analyzing and communicating scientific data.
</p><h5>Hands-on experience</h5><p>Students get that hands-on experience in the laboratory and through fieldwork, often working alongside professors on real-world research projects. Teaching and mentoring are at the heart of the experience.
</p><p>“We give students training in geographic information systems (GIS), remote sensing and seafloor mapping,” Dr. Lindholm said.
</p><p>A prolific researcher, he involves students – undergraduates as well as graduate students in the Coastal and Watershed Science and Policy program – in much of his work.
</p><p>Since joining the faculty at CSUMB in 2007, Dr. Lindholm has established the Institute for Applied Marine Ecology. The goal of the institute is to understand the interaction of marine ecological systems and human activities.
</p><p>Among the institute’s many projects is one surveying deep-water habitats in the newly created marine protected areas along California’s north central coast ­– from San Mateo County north to Mendocino County, using a remotely operated vehicle. The information gathered will serve as the foundation of a program to evaluate the status of fish, invertebrates and their seafloor habitats inside and outside the new MPAs.
</p><p>Another project involves collecting video and photos that help to explore, describe and catalogue the resources of the Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary.
</p><p>He’s also researching the recovery of seafloor habitats off Morro Bay and the Gulf of Maine following the cessation of trawling.
</p><h5>Ten days in an undersea laboratory</h5><p>Perhaps the project with the highest visibility is Dr. Lindholm’s work with Aquarius, the world’s only underwater laboratory.
</p><p>In 2008, he led a mission that studied the movement and behavior of coral reef fish off Key Largo in the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary. Dr. Lindholm supported the mission from the surface, but three CSUMB graduate students spent 10 days in the lab, 60 feet below the sea surface.
</p><p>He returned in October to lead Aquarius 2010: If Reefs Could Talk, a mission designed to educate the public so they can make informed decisions about how their actions impact the world’s most important resource – the ocean.
</p><p>Dr. Lindholm and a graduate student lived in the laboratory, which he says is similar to the International Space Station in size and functionality. Two students worked from the surface, and two more were “ambassadors” for the program, working with Monterey County schools that showed live broadcasts from the lab.
</p><p>Qualifying for the mission isn't easy. The physical requirements are similar to what potential astronauts face. All participants have to be experienced divers with research and rescue certifications.
</p><p>"This is truly a remarkable opportunity for these students," Dr. Lindholm said. "What they are going to experience is extraordinary."
</p><h5>Students work on seafloor mapping</h5><p>Other opportunities – and jobs – are available to students through the university’s Seafloor Mapping Lab.
</p><p>Supported through grant and contract work, the Seafloor Mapping Lab conducts marine habitat survey work from the Arctic to the Antarctic. The lab has been instrumental in the ongoing California Seafloor Mapping Project, an effort to create the first comprehensive, high-resolution map of California's state waters – from the shoreline out three nautical miles.
</p><p>The project involves industry, resource management agencies and universities. Final products will include a series of maps showing the seafloor and coastal geology in unprecedented detail.
</p><p>“We know more about the surface of Mars than the three-mile strip of state waters along our coast,” Dr. Kvitek said. “If the goal is to protect and sustainably manage our marine resources, we don’t have the tools to do it without that basic map. You can see everything down to the size of a lawn chair, and you can look for changes year after year.”
</p><p>Dr. Kvitek’s work has been featured on the Discovery Channel and in National Geographic magazine, among other publications.
</p><p>These opportunities to do hands-on research appeal to students.
</p><p>“I chose CSUMB because the fieldwork with the marine program is a big part of it, and I like working outside, with people,” said Jazmyn Julius, a freshman from Santa Maria.
</p><p>Katie Wrubel can tell Jazmyn about that.
</p><p>Wrubel, a 2010 graduate of the ESTP program, spent the summer working with the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife. The 10-week program was identified by CSUMB’s Undergraduate Research Opportunities Center and sponsored by Oregon State University.
</p><p>She’s now pursuing a Ph.D. in environmental science at Washington State University in Vancouver.
</p><p>“The people I met are the best part,” Wrubel told OSU. “The marine science world is so small and it seems that everyone knows everyone, so joining that circle has opened so many doors for me.”
</p><p>AT A GLANCE
</p><p>Currently, more than half of the 300 Environmental Science, Technology and Policy majors at Cal State Monterey  Bay and about 30 percent of the 400 biology majors are pursuing marine-related concentrations.
</p><p>No other school in the 23-campus California State University system offers a B.S. in marine science. Pending approval, the degree is scheduled to be offered at CSUMB in the fall of 2012.
</p><p>Marine scientists deal with a variety of issues ­– from climate change, declining fisheries and eroding coastlines to the invention of new technologies to explore the sea.
</p><p>According to NOAA, there’s a huge potential for growth in the field as researchers learn more about the ocean and its interactions with the land and atmosphere, how humans affect the ocean, and the impact of ocean resources on our quality of life.
</p><p>President Dianne Harrison urged faculty and staff of Cal State Monterey Bay to answer a call to service and excellence for the university and its students in her annual State of the University address in August.
</p><p>“… In spite of the still-sluggish economy and the unresolved state budget, I have never been so proud of our entire university or felt more confident of its continued progress,” she said.
</p><p>Dr. Harrison pointed out the positive response the university has received from the organization reviewing its application for re-accreditation. “California State University, Monterey Bay has turned an important corner from its formative years and is maturing as a comprehensive university for the 21st century,” she said.
</p><p>More than 1,100 new students – freshmen and transfers – attended campus orientation sessions during the summer. But Dr. Harrison reminded her audience that more than 3,200 qualified applicants had to be turned away because of a budget-imposed cap on enrollment.
</p><p>The new students, she pointed out, “come with high expectations, and they are counting on us to help them achieve their goals – regardless of the state budget.”
</p><p>Money will continue to be tight for years to come, she said. “A scarcity of public dollars has become the new normal.”
</p><p>But Dr. Harrison quickly moved beyond money to talk about a few of the university's recent accomplishments.
</p><p>The biology, psychology, kinesiology, business, math and computer science majors have clearly resonated with students. And so does the new Master of Social Work program, which started its first class with approximately 40 students.
</p><p>“We will not be stymied by state budgets or be satisfied to simply ride out the storm,” Dr. Harrison said. “Together we will continue to innovate and be leaders in our disciplines and services and in higher education.”
</p><p>The number of CSUMB students from the tri-county area increased in Fall 2010. Residents of Monterey, Santa Cruz and San Benito counties now make up 33 percent of enrollment, compared with 31 percent last year. Northern California and Southern California each supply approximately another third of students.
</p><p>Total enrollment is 4,790 this semester, including 829 freshmen and 490 new transfer students. This year’s incoming class has a grade-point average of 3.25, up slightly from last year.  
</p><p>Marina Mayor Bruce Delgado presented a ceremonial key to the city to President Dianne Harrison as part of Otter Fest 2010, the city’s welcome-back event for students held Aug. 29, the first Sunday of the fall semester.
</p><p>Prior to the event, Delgado told the City Council, Marina “wants them, loves them and needs them,” referring to students and the potential boon they represent to the city. Otter Fest included extended hours at the weekly farmers market, food, cooking and gardening demonstrations, live music from a trio of bands, and a business promotion with “Otter Fest passports” and prizes designed to get students into many of the city’s businesses.  
</p><p>Cal State Monterey Bay is one of the most racially diverse schools in its category, according to U.S. News &amp; World Report in the 2011 edition of America’s Best Colleges.
</p><p>CSUMB is tied with Amherst College at No. 11 on the magazine’s “diversity index” among national liberal arts colleges – schools that award at least half their degrees in the fields of liberal arts. Approximately 265 colleges and universities are in the category. The “diversity index” factors in the total proportion of minority students and the overall mix of groups. The information is drawn from each school’s 2009-10 student body.
</p><p>CSUMB also was a leader in the U.S. News category of least debt owed by students. Members of the class of 2009 who borrowed money had an average debt of $15,254.
</p><p>Washington Monthly magazine rated CSUMB highly, as well.
</p><p>The university ranked second among the nation’s public liberal arts colleges in its contribution to the public good, according to the magazine’s 2010 College Guide.
</p><p>The Washington Monthly rates schools based on: recruitment and graduation of low-income students; cutting-edge scholarship and Ph.D.s; and students who give back to their communities.  
</p><p>For the third straight year, CSUMB has received a grant from the outdoor recreation retailer REI for the university’s Return of the Natives project.
</p><p>The $15,000 grant will support work with school children and local teachers, university students and community volunteers on habitat-restoration projects on Fort Ord public lands, the creeks of Salinas and Monterey Peninsula Regional Park District lands in Locke-Paddon Park and Marina Dunes Preserve.
</p><p>Return of the Natives is dedicated to bringing people closer to nature and nature closer to people through hands-on experience in restoring habitats. The REI grant is one of many received by CSUMB, totaling $18.2 million in 2009-10.  
</p><p>In an effort to maximize the education students receive outside the classroom, CSUMB now offers residents the opportunity to live in “themed” learning communities.
</p><p>Students can choose to live on residence hall floors set aside for those interested in science and math, outdoor adventure, liberal studies or business. While no academic content is tied to the living arrangement, leisure-time activities are scheduled around the topics.
</p><p>Freshmen also have the option of participating in Project Higher Ground, where they live in residence halls with a group of students who take at least two courses together.  
</p><p>Filmmaker Magazine has honored CSUMB alumni Robert Machoian and Rodrigo Ojeda-Beck.
</p><p>The magazine, a quarterly publication and website devoted to independent film, named the pair to its annual list of “25 New Faces.”
</p><p>The list is the magazine's “bet on the individuals who will be shaping the independent film world of the future.”
</p><p>When Machoian (Class of '07) and Ojeda-Beck ('09) met as students in the Teledramatic Arts and Technology Department, they had different styles but found a third when working together.
</p><p>The films they have made together display classic art house film style, according to the magazine. Visuals are the key, along with colorful imagery and solitary characters in simple situations, with editing that tells a story without much dialogue.
</p><p>At CSUMB, their goal was to make as many films as they could over the course of a semester, resulting in 14 shorts. “Ella and the Astronaut” was shown at festivals all over the world, and “Charlie and the Rabbit” premiered at the Sundance Film Festival last January.
</p><p>Machoian has become the first TAT alumnus to get a university teaching job. He has a full-time position this semester at Cal State Sacramento, replacing a faculty member who is on leave. Ojeda-Beck is enrolled in the Master of Fine Arts program at UC Berkeley with a fellowship to help cover the cost.
</p><p>Dance is at center stage for the World Theater’s 10th anniversary season.
</p><p>The Paul Taylor Dance Company returns Nov. 11. Taylor has choreographed a new dance called “Brief Encounters,” in celebration of his 80th birthday. The piece is set to the music of Claude Debussy’s “Children’s Corner.”
</p><p>On Oct. 21, Madrid-based Noche Flamenca made its first visit to campus, presenting the Spanish folk art form of rapid, fluid guitar playing, heart-piercing vocals and impassioned dancing.
</p><p>The fall schedule will close Dec. 11 with a Hawaiian family holiday performance featuring slack key guitarist George Kahumoku. Known as Hawaii’s Renaissance man, Kahumoku is an accomplished musician as well as a sculptor, painter, teacher, farmer and captivating storyteller.
</p><p>All performances start at 7:30 p.m. For ticket information, visit the theater online at <a href="http://worldtheater.csumb.edu/">CSUMB.EDU/worldtheater</a> or call 831-582-4580.  
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p>After a career in the Army, and a second one spent in the mining industry in Peru, Dick Guthrie of Pebble Beach was looking for ways to satisfy his curiosity about, well, almost everything.
</p><p>He heard about the Osher Lifelong Learning Institute from someone he knew and discovered that for a $149 annual fee, he could participate in a variety of programs for a single price.
</p><p>Guthrie signed up, and is now in his second year.
</p><p>“I have a wide range of interests, and OLLI satisfies them,” he said. “It’s a great opportunity for everyone in the area.” This year, he’s taking writing classes and one in archaeology.
</p><p><strong>TO GET INVOLVED:</strong> An annual OLLI membership fee of $149 covers up to six classes. Become a member by going online at <a href="http://csumb.edu/olli">CSUMB.EDU/olli</a>. The site has course and enrollment information. Membership includes a university parking pass and discounts to the World Theater and athletic events, as well as use of athletic facilities. Students may also choose to pay a per&#45;class fee. To register by mail, call the OLLI office at 831&#45;582&#45;5500
</p><p>Guthrie is one of several hundred people participating in OLLI, which was established at Cal State Monterey Bay four years ago with funding from the Bernard Osher Foundation of San Francisco. The 80&#45;year&#45;old Osher is a champion of lifelong learning who backs up that passion with donations of hundreds of millions of dollars. His generosity has funded 119 OLLI programs around the country.
</p><p>The program is intended for people over 50. Classes focus on personal enrichment and come in a variety of formats: Some are lectures, others are discussions; still others are hands&#45;on. The courses require no tests, research papers or grades.
</p><p>Most classes are held on campus, though a few are held at other community locations. Topics this semester include gospel choir; modern spiritual masters and integral philosophy, both taught by John Provost; weather and hurricanes; a cultural history of jazz; autumn bird migration; and the California elections, taught by former State Assemblyman Fred Keeley.
</p><p>Guthrie and nine others turned out on a Thursday morning in September to resume the OLLI Writers’ Circle. All of them are continuing students. They range from beginning writers to published professionals. They’re working on all kinds of projects and all receive constructive feedback on their work. Guthrie is writing a memoir about his experience as a company commander in Vietnam. And he’s serious about it.
</p><p>“I won’t rest until I’ve told about the soldiers’ bravery and sacrifice under trying conditions,” he said. “The OLLI writing courses have helped me stay focused and productive.”
</p><p>If he can’t secure a traditional publisher, he intends to self&#45;publish the book.
</p><p>Kathy Whilden of Monterey, a retired social worker, has been in the Writers Circle since it formed.
</p><p>“I always thought of myself as a writer – I loved that part of my job. I’m reporting on my life now; I reported on other people’s lives then,” she said.
</p><p>“Writing about my life is a way to give it validation.”
</p><p>Andrea Gilliland, a psychology major and certified pastry chef, works for Sodexo in the Catering Department and the Otter Bay Cafe.
</p><p>During last year’s Otter Orientation, she inquired about a gluten-free meal for her mother. This inquiry, along with her culinary experience, landed her a chef position for Sodexo while she continues as a full-time student. Gilliland has since introduced gluten-free, dairy-free, vegetarian and vegan options for diners.
</p><p>“Working in the Catering Department has provided me with challenges and also the ability to branch out in my creativity,” said the senior from San Luis Obispo. She also created menu items for the Have a Heart for Students Dinner and Auction, the Business Showcase Dinner, and this year’s post-Commencement luncheon.
</p><p>After graduation in spring 2011, she plans to cook her way through school as she completes a Master of Social Work degree.
</p><p>Austin Long, a senior in the Visual and Public Art Department, already has the sensitivity and worldliness of a great photographer. The son of an artist and a military officer, he spent half of his high school career in Bolivia, where he soaked up the culture and dabbled in photography.
</p><p>But what was once a hobby is now his career focus. Last year, Long received recognition for his talents as a photographer, winning the first Roy De Carva/Carrie Mae Weems Photo Prize, a $1,000 scholarship awarded by CSUMB’s VPA program to outstanding student photographers.
</p><p>“I’m more at home in the VPA program,” he said. “The program’s strength is teaching us how to think like artists, how to conceptualize our work, not just produce it.”
</p><p>Long needed a compelling portfolio to receive the award, and he had one.
</p><p>Two summers ago, while on a trip with his grandfather to the Dominican Republic, he documented daily life.
</p><p>Cupping a 1987 Model Nikon N4004 camera in his hand and shooting with Velvia slide film, Long traversed the cities of Jaibon and Santo Domingo. The simple moments of children playing jump rope, elderly men relaxing in the afternoon, and teenagers chatting under a tree caught his eye.
</p><p>Long plans to be a commercial photographer when he graduates this spring while continuing to pursue his art.
</p><p>“Everyone here actually has an art career, on top of teaching,” he said. “It is cool to be able to talk to people who are working artists.”  
</p><p>For the first time since its inception in 1985, CSU Summer Arts will reside at CSU Monterey Bay, bringing an artistic explosion to Monterey County. On July 2, the first of Summer Arts' five-year residency at CSUMB began. – <em>California State University website,</em> July 2, 2012
</p><h3>CSUMB librarian part of group performing in London</h3><p>Cal State Monterey Bay didn’t land an athlete at the Olympics, but the university will be represented in another way.
</p><p>Reference and instruction librarian Sarah Dahlen is a member of the Monterey Peninsula Choral Society. The 113-member group will perform at several venues in London during the Games, one of just six choirs in the world invited to sing during the 17-day run of the Olympics.
</p><p>“The choir typically has rehearsals once a week, but for the weeks leading up to our departure, we’ve had four each week,” Dahlen said. “And I’ve done a lot of work on my own as well, and am usually singing in the car.”
</p><p>The choir is scheduled to perform at Olympic Park, where as many as 30,000 people are expected to be in the audience. The singers will also perform at Canterbury Cathedral, Westminster Abbey and several other venues.
</p><p>“Our repertoire includes about 25 songs and I’ve pretty much got all of them memorized at this point,” she said.
</p><p>The society will present a bon voyage concert July 27 at a church in Carmel; Dahlen will leave for Paris the next morning.
</p><p>“We’re skipping the craziness of the Opening Ceremonies to sing at a couple of venues in Paris: La Madeleine Church and EuroDisney,” Dahlen said.
</p><p>The group, which also includes retired CSUMB staff member Diane Ehlers, will take a ferry to the United Kingdom on Aug. 1, in time to do some sightseeing before their concerts.
</p><p>“I’ve never been to the Olympics before, but I think it’s an amazing event and it will be great to be around the energy of the athletes and spectators in the park, even if we’re not able to attend a competition” Dahlen said.
</p><p>The organizers were not able to secure tickets for the large group, but “they made up for it by getting us tickets to see Wicked in London’s West End.”
</p><p>Most members of the group will return home on Aug. 6, but Dahlen will head to Finland for a couple of weeks. She’ll attend a meeting of the International Federation of Library Associations, where she’s scheduled to present a workshop on using rubrics for information literacy instruction. And then she’s headed to Kuusamo, 37 miles south of the Arctic Circle, for a week of vacation.
</p><p>“I’m hoping to do some hiking there and enjoy the long daylight hours,” she said.
</p><p>Editor's Note: <em>Bon Voyage Concert, 8 p.m., July 27, at All Saints’ Episcopal Church, Dolores Street and Ninth Avenue, Carmel. Information: www.thempcs.org</em>
</p><p><em> </em>
</p><h3>An insider’s look at Seattle’s outsider poet</h3><p>The Teledramatic Arts and Technology Department at CSU Monterey Bay will present a screening of “I Am Secretly an Important Man” at the Osio Theater in Monterey on March 5.
</p><p>The documentary film, directed by Peter Sillen, will be shown at 7 p.m.
</p><p>In the film, Sillen examines the life of subculture hero Steven Jesse Bernstein. Bernstein, a songwriter, poet and performance artist, was a literary rebel and vivid presence in Seattle’s underground scene in the 1970s and ’80s. Cited as the “godfather of grunge,” he opened concerts for Nirvana and Soundgarden and recorded albums of songs and poetry for Sub Pop Records.
</p><p>The film’s title comes from one of his poems, “Come Out Tonight.” It became an inspiration and an anthem for the grunge-rock movement.
</p><p>Using video and audio clips of his subject, along with interviews with the artist’s family, friends and colleagues, and powerful footage of the darker side of Seattle, Sillen shows the poet’s self-examination and what Bernstein called just plain “doing your job.”
</p><p>The director will be on hand to introduce the film and to take questions from the audience after the showing. A New York based documentary filmmaker, Sillen is best known for his low-tech approach and sensitivity to his subjects and their environment. He has screened his films at a wide array of festivals and venues including the Sundance Film Festival, Berlin Film Festival, South By Southwest, Slamdance, the Museum of Modern Art, Brooklyn Academy of Music and San Francisco’s Castro Theater.
</p><p>Mike Plante, an associate programmer of the Sundance Film Festival who has worked with TAT for several years, selected the film.
</p><p>According to TAT department chair Enid Blader, “Mike selected it not only because it fits with the literary tradition of the Monterey Bay area, but also to continue championing films that might otherwise go unseen, and to support a filmmaker who is telling a story in a distinct and stylish way.”
</p><p>Tickets can be purchased at the door at the regular Osio prices: $9 for general admission, $6.25 for seniors, $6.75 for students/military with ID.
</p><p><em>Whether he’s a grunge footnote, a beatnik wannabe, or a beautiful, belated loser, the film allows you to decide.</em> – Seattle Weekly
</p><h3>Campus will participate in systemwide workshop</h3><p>Whether at a field site or in a lab, the chance to conduct research is a game&#45;changer for many CSU Monterey Bay students when it comes to earning a degree.
</p><p>The experiences, they say, can ignite a passion, build and reinforce confidence, keep them on track for graduation and provide a head start on graduate school.
</p><p>At CSUMB, the challenge of pursuing a hypothesis down a rigorous line of research is infused throughout the curriculum. The Undergraduate Research Opportunities Center – UROC – builds on the curriculum to engage students in research beyond the classroom.
</p><p>UROC is a cross&#45;campus center that serves students in multiple disciplines. These experiences help students make the link between their classroom and the wider world and help them to develop critical skills for success in graduate school and professional life.
</p><p>Now, campuses in the CSU are coming together to do some serious thinking about undergraduate research across the 23&#45;campus system. Because of its leadership in this area, CSUMB has been selected to participate in a workshop next October designed to improve and expand the opportunities for students. Eight other campuses will also participate. The emphasis will be on the STEM – science, technology, engineering and math – fields.
</p><p>The workshop will emphasize connecting current undergraduate research activities across campuses, developing databases to track students’ progress, building undergraduate research into faculty workload and identifying a curriculum model that would provide every undergraduate access to research opportunities.
</p><p>UROC began in January 2009. Since then, nearly 200 students have been served; currently, 60 students are engaged in or pursuing research placements.
</p><p>“We know the power of undergraduate research here at CSUMB,” said Dr. Bill Head, UROC director and professor in the Division of Science and Environmental Policy. “We’re proud of the commitment and leadership our campus has shown at providing these opportunities for our students.
</p><p>“We look forward to collaborating with our partner campuses to expand these opportunities throughout the CSU educational experience.”
</p><p>Learn about the work done by <a href="http://uroc.csumb.edu/highlights">UROC students</a>.
</p><p><strong><a href="http://uroc.csumb.edu/highlights">About UROC</a>:</strong> UROC is home to CSU Monterey Bay’s strong and growing undergraduate research&#45;related programs, such as the McNair Scholars Program, the National Science Foundation Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation program &#40;LSAMP&#41;, and the Department of Education’s College Cost Reduction and Access Act grant program. The center is housed in the new Tanimura &amp; Antle Family Memorial Library and funded through federal grants, private contributions, and corporate donations.
</p><p>Image above: Taken from a video highlighting the research project by Xeromino Castaneda
</p><p>As of July 1, the Business and Information Technology (BIT) building was approximately 40 percent complete.
</p><p>Groundbreaking for CSUMB's newest academic building was held on Nov. 12. The $43 million, 58,000-square-foot structure will house the College of Business and the School of Information Technology and Communications Design.
</p><p>Housing the two programs together allows students to integrate technology and business practices, and encourages the spirit of innovation and entrepreneurship crucial for learning.
</p><p>Located on the south side of Divarty Street next to the Tanimura &amp; Antle Family Memorial Library, the technology-rich building will have eight classrooms, 12 labs, offices, conference rooms and student study areas.
</p><p>Check out the progress of construction via <a href="http://media.csumb.edu/bitcam/">webcam</a> View the latest <a href="http://media.csumb.edu/bitcam/latest.php">image</a>
</p><p>Sustainability strategies are incorporated into the design. Spaces are organized to ensure learning environments and staff areas receive natural light; storm water runoff will be contained on site; water conserving plumbing fixtures will be used; and heat-producing direct sunlight kept to a minimum with the exterior screen wall. The building has been designed to LEED Gold standards.
</p><p>The project is expected to be completed for the 2015-16 academic year.
</p><p>Facts about the building:
</p><p>• Location: Divarty Street, next to the Tanimura &amp; Antle Family Memorial Library
</p><p>• Function: Will house the College of Business and the School of Information Technology &amp; Communication Design
</p><p>• Features: The technology-rich building will have two and three levels tied together by an atrium and will include eight classrooms; 12 laboratories; offices for faculty members, departments and the dean of the College of Business; conference rooms; student study areas; and a graduate student lounge.
</p><p>• Sustainable features: Sustainability strategies are incorporated into the design. Spaces are organized to ensure learning environments and staff areas receive natural light; storm water runoff is to be contained on site; water conserving plumbing fixtures will be used; and heat-producing direct sunlight kept to a minimum with the exterior screen wall. The building has been designed to be LEED Gold certified.
</p><p>• Architect: HMC Architects of San Jose (other projects include San Francisco State University library renovation and expansion; UC San Diego School of Management; College of the Desert Nursing Complex)
</p><p>• General contractor: Rudolph and Sletten
</p><p>• Size: 58,000 gross square feet
</p><p>• Start of construction: November 2013
</p><p>• Estimated completion: For the 2015-16 academic year
</p><p>• Cost of construction: $43 million ($30 million for construction and $13 million for indirect costs including architects and engineer fees, consultants, agency reviews, furniture and equipment, etc.)
</p><p>• Funded by: $43 million of state funds  
</p><h3>UCLA’s Cheryl Keyes visits CSUMB </h3><p>Dr. Cheryl Keyes, professor of ethnomusicology in the School of Music at UCLA, will lecture on the development of rap/hip-hop music when she visits CSU Monterey Bay on Dec. 6.
</p><p>The free lecture will be held from 10 to 11:50 a.m. in the Music Hall on Sixth Avenue and Butler Street.
</p><p>Dr. Keyes is the author of “Rap Music and Street Consciousness,” which received a CHOICE award for outstanding academic books when it was published in 2004.
</p><p>This professor speaks the language of the streets; she also speaks on panels and at seminars as a nationally recognized rap/hip-hop scholar whose academic credentials include a Ph.D. from Indiana University.
</p><p>While “rap” defines the music, Dr. Keyes told the Long Beach Press-Telegram, hip-hop embodies a larger “youth art movement,” composed of music, graffiti, attitude and dress. Her work draws on research she has done in West Africa, New York City, Detroit, Los Angeles and London.
</p><p>Rap music, according to Dr. Keyes, is a forum that addresses the political and economic disenfranchisement of black youths and other groups, fosters ethnic pride, and displays cultural values and aesthetics. Blending popular culture with folklore and ethnomusicology, she offers a nuanced portrait of the artists, themes, and various styles reflective of urban life and street consciousness. A filmmaker, she has completed a documentary called “Beyond Central Avenue: Contemporary Female Jazz Instrumentalists of Los Angeles,” funded by UCLA’s Center for Community Partnerships. Her musical creative works have been performed by the Women’s Jazz Orchestra of Los Angeles. As a performer, she played with trumpeter Clark Terry’s All-Girl All-Star Jazz Band, and she has recorded with New Orleans rhythm-blues pianist Eddie Bo, and with jazz clarinetist Alvin Batiste. Her debut CD, Let Me Take You There, won an Image Award from the NAACP in the category of Outstanding World Music Album.” Driving directions and a campus map are available <a href="http://csumb.edu/map">here</a>. While the lecture is free, visitors must buy a parking permit from machines located on the adjacent lot.
</p><p>For more information or to arrange for disability accommodations, contact Nicole Mendoza at 582-3009.
</p><p>Imagine if, over a decade, San Francisco Bay lost enough sediment to fill about 5,000 Olympic swimming pools with sand and gravel, and some mud.
</p><p>That's appears to be what happened.
</p><p>According to research just published by CSU Monterey Bay professor Rikk Kvitek (pictured at right) and U.S. Geological Survey researcher Patrick L. Barnard, an analysis of bathymetric (or sea-bottom) measurements taken in 1997 and again in 2008 indicates that the west-central San Francisco Bay – roughly from the Golden Gate to about a mile east of Angel Island and Alcatraz – lost about 14.1 million cubic meters of sediment. That's the equivalent of about a square mile piled about 17 feet high – or those 5,000 pools.
</p><p>The report appears in the current issue of San Francisco Estuary and Watershed Science. Access it here.
</p><p>The 2008 analysis, they wrote, benefited from advances in Global Positioning Systems (GPS) that virtually eliminated inaccuracies due to changing tides or rocking vessels; and from recent improvements in multi-beam sonar, seafloor sampling and underwater video that more clearly reveal the depth and nature of sediments above bedrock.
</p><p>"The seafloor position can now be mapped with unprecedented detail and precision," the researchers wrote.
</p><p>Their mapping covered about 15.6 square miles, about one-fourth of which was under lease for aggregate mining. The leased areas, they found, lost sediment at more than four times the rate of the non-leased areas. (Overall, based on soundings taken from 1947 to 1979, San Francisco Bay appears to be losing sediment three times faster than it did in the mid- to late-20th century.)
</p><p>Kvitek and Barnard conclude that the recently lost, predominantly coarse, sediment was "material that would otherwise have been available for transport to eroding, open-coast beaches" along the San Francisco shoreline.
</p><p>. . . Cal State Monterey Bay made history on CBS Sports Network with the first-ever national telecast of a CCAA women's basketball game.  – <em>The Salinas Californian</em>, Feb. 17, 2014
</p><p>In celebration of Black History Month, the CSUMB chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, Black Students United and other organizations have kept really busy. – <em>Monterey Herald</em>, Feb. 14, 2014
</p><h3>Entrepreneurs share lessons learned on Feb. 26</h3><p>Four business owners will share their experiences starting and running successful ventures and the lessons they learned along the way at the spring Entrepreneurship Forum set for Feb. 26 at CSU Monterey Bay.
</p><p>The free forum, from 4 to 6 p.m. in the University Center, is sponsored by the Institute for Innovation and Economic Development and CSUMB’s College of Business.
</p><p>Panel members include Paul Temple from Advanced Onion; Shawn Bakker from Bakker Construction; Carlos Lopez from Lopez Tax Services; and Ben Holber from YoDerm, winner of the 2012 Monterey Bay Regional Business Plan Competition. Audience members will have the opportunity to ask questions after the presentations.
</p><p>For more information, contact MaryJo Zenk at 831-582-3230 or e-mail her at <a href="&#x6d;&#97;&#x69;&#108;t&#x6f;&#58;&#x6d;&#122;&#101;&#x6e;&#107;&#x40;&#99;&#115;&#x75;&#109;&#x62;&#x2e;&#101;&#x64;&#117;">mzenk@csumb.edu</a>.
</p><p>The University Center is located on Sixth Avenue at B Street. Driving directions and a campus map can be found <a href="http://csumb.edu/maps">here</a>. Visitors must purchase a parking permit from the machine on the lot.
</p><p> 
</p><p>**<em>About CSU Monterey Bay’s Entrepreneurship Forums****Each semester, the <a href="http://innovation.csumb.edu">Institute for Innovation and Economic Development</a>, in partnership with the <a href="http://csumb.edu/business">College of Business</a>, hosts an Entrepreneurship Forum. Past forums have addressed topics such as how startups quickly nail the product that sells; advice from lenders; and a look at crowdfunding.</em>  
</p><p>Millions of viewers across the country will get the chance to watch CSUMB's women's basketball make its TV debut this weekend. – <em>KION-TV</em>, Feb. 14, 2014
</p><p>CSUMB President Eduardo Ochoa kicked off an annual recruiting event aimed at African American communities. – <em>KSBW-</em>TV, Feb. 15, 2014
</p><h3>Outdoor Forest Theater hosts third annual event </h3><p>Work by students at California State University, Monterey Bay will be presented at the third annual Carmel Short Film Festival scheduled for dusk on June 19 at the Outdoor Forest Theater.
</p><p>Sponsored by the Forest Theater Guild, CSU Monterey Bay's Department of Teledramatic Arts and Technology and the Monterey Bay Film Society, the screening is an encore presentation of work shown at the university’s Capstone Festival in May. "Capstones" are senior projects, a graduation requirement for all CSUMB students.
</p><p>Among the "shorts" – all are under six minutes – to be screened are music videos, documentaries, animation and narratives. All films are family-friendly (PG-13 content). Tickets are $12 and can be purchased at the door. The program is expected to start around 8 p.m. Spectators are advised to wear warm clothing and may want to bring a blanket. Concessions will be available.The Forest Theater is located at the corner of Mountain View and Santa Rita streets near downtown Carmel. For information, visit the web at <a href="http://www.foresttheaterguild.org" title="www.foresttheaterguild.org">www.foresttheaterguild.org</a>. On the program are:
</p><p><em>Into the Dream</em> by Evelyn Montes A woman's passions and dreams are kept alive through music.
</p><p><em>A World of Her Own</em> by Ralph Blanchard This short documentary is a portrait of Patri, a victim of schizophrenia and her family who has adapted to her world.
</p><p><em>The Gift</em> by Anthony Spedaliere and Joab Perez The passing of a gift from one person to another.
</p><p><em>They Call Us Brats</em> by Tabitha Enanoria andKatherine Foltz Strength and hope are just two words that describe the Moberly family. Mark Moberly is an active duty member in the Army. His wife Kelly and their five children have just moved to Seaside California. In this documentary film we explore the children’s perspective and how they feel about growing up in a Military family.
</p><p><em>Newly Dea</em>d by Aaron Roy Recently demised, a soul discovers how the system works in the afterlife. Due to budget cuts, it is now up to the soul to choose between heaven or hell. both Angel and Demon, serving as representatives for both systems, try to sell one place over the other. Ultimately, everyone finds themselves stuck in purgatory because of decisions made by upper management.
</p><p><em>A Daughter's Journey</em> by Lori Zaknich A Daughter’s Journey is a film that looks at the memories of my father after his death. It touches on the emotions that relate to those memories and our relationship. This film is about honoring him as well as truthfully expressing the difficult feelings that come up when remembering my childhood. It is a discovery of self through the experiences in my life. And it is about continuing forward with strength and good intentions for my own child.
</p><p><em>Viaje al Mar</em> by Ryan Elam and Bryan Elbert A young boy living on a farm decides to embark on a journey to see the ocean for the first time.
</p><p><em>Serious Leisure</em> by Tanya Mullen An ambitious and mildly ludicrous man has a love for hobbies but unbeknownst to him is disastrous at all of them.
</p><p><em>Lords, Ladies</em> by Casey Poma When medieval knight Marek has enough of standing in a watch tower day after day, he urges his friend and fellow knight Borin to join him for a trip in the woods.
</p><p><em>Addictive Application</em> by Rachel Asendorf Documentary about the Facebook virtual reality game Farmville where players spend numerous amounts of time harvesting a virtual plot of land. A Farmville player takes a day to work on a real organic farm in Salinas, CA to gain perspective on the reality of farm work.
</p><p><em>The Karl Krogstad Dimension</em> by Kelly Hills Karl Krogstad is both truth and fiction in his own autobiography. The Seattle born artist finally settles down after sixty-five films and seventeen music videos, and thousands of paintings but who’s counting? Karl is one of the best independent, surrealist filmmakers and how can he not be when he is best friends with Gus Van Sant and Tom Robbins. The outrageous, loud, wild and out there KK has finally summed up his sixty plus years of life with this autobiography. This is just a small peek through the window into the world of Karl Krogstad.
</p><p><em>The Wet Sand</em> by Joshua Fryou Traumatized from their experiences at war, two discharged soldiers find closure from one special dog.
</p><p><em>Bright Black</em> by Shantel Byrd A tap dancer, a hip hop dancer and a ballerina unite performing together on stage creating their own mixed form of dance. The dancers not only prove their successes alone, but also show how paths to new and different opportunities can await when they congregate with others.
</p><p><em>Clueless</em> by Petey Camarillo Ava Brown cheats, lies and doesn’t have a care in the world. Too bad her parents are too dense to notice.
</p><p><em>Good Morning, Day</em>! by Calvin Alice-Demorest On a day brimming with good vibes, several strangers collide and bring their energies together while waiting for the bus. When it shows, everything about the journey seems distant and strange, until a mysterious and flirty girl thinks she’s got skills at tic-tac-toe.
</p><p><em>Resurrection</em> by Nichole Worden Both Eric and Vickie Worden were bikers before being a biker was the hip thing to do. From their early twenties both had been riding Harleys, but that lifestyle was put on hold when they started their family. Now that all the kids have grown up, and the business is doing well, it is time to don the leathers and ride again.
</p><p><em>EPIC!</em> by Tyler Lee A pair of adventurers in a fantasy role-playing game find themselves faced with a seemingly unbeatable foe: A Dungeon Master that takes himself too seriously. What will happen when rules are overlooked and egos get in the way? Find out in an adventure where imagination and reality collide!
</p><p><em>ON BOARD</em> by Dustin Brockman A personal narrative-style documentary that brings viewers literally “on board” into the world of surfing, told by those who truly embrace it.   
</p><h3>CSUMB Rotaract Club organizes March 29 event</h3><p>The CSU Monterey Bay Rotaract Club will host a Zumbathon to benefit the American Cancer Society’s Relay for Life from 10 a.m. to noon, Saturday, March 29 at Water City Skate in Marina.
</p><p>Relay for Life is more than just a fundraiser. It’s a time to “celebrate, remember and fight back” against cancer. CSUMB Rotaract, a campus organization dedicated to community service and affiliated with Rotary International, is doing just that with this upbeat, high-energy event.
</p><p>According to club co-president Charn Singh, a junior biology major, Rotaract brings together college students for the purpose of humanitarian service, networking, building goodwill and promoting peace around the world. Said Singh: “One thing that makes our club unique is that we’re not university-based; instead, we’re community-based. Students from Monterey Peninsula College, Hartnell College, Monterey Institute of International Studies and the Defense Language Institute can join, and we have several members from each of those institutions.”
</p><p>Zumbathon participants are asked to make a $10 minimum donation. All proceeds will go to the American Cancer Society. Raffles, prizes and giveaways from local restaurants and businesses will be part of the fun.
</p><p>Relay for Life is a life-changing event that gives everyone a chance to celebrate the lives of those who have battled cancer, remember loved ones lost and fight back against the disease.
</p><p>“Everyone knows someone touched by cancer, which in itself is really scary. It’s important for our community to come together and help finish the fight against cancer,” Singh said.
</p><p>“Sometimes, it’s easy to feel small when you want to do something major. As long as we have passionate individuals who want to help in any way, then I know we can make a difference. It’s all about ‘Service Above Self’.”
</p><p>Participants should bring water, a towel and a smile to this event. To find out more about the Zumbathon, contact Carina at <a href="&#109;&#x61;i&#108;&#x74;&#111;&#58;&#x63;&#97;&#x6e;&#x64;&#114;&#x61;d&#101;&#x40;&#99;&#115;&#x75;&#109;&#x62;&#x2e;&#101;&#x64;&#x75;">candrade@csumb.edu</a>. Water City Skate is located at 2800 Second Ave.
</p><p>. . . CSU Monterey Bay is ranked fourth among the nation's public liberal arts colleges in its contribution to the public good. The university is also ranked third overall in research expenditures, according to the Washington Monthly 2011 College Guide published this week. – <em>The Salinas Californian</em>, Sept. 3, 2011
</p><p>The Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching has once again honored CSU Monterey Bay for its focus on service and public engagement, making it one of only 361 institutions in the United States to hold the classification.
</p><p>The 2015 Community Engagement Classification documents CSUMB’s “excellent alignment among campus mission, culture, leadership, resources and practices that support dynamic and noteworthy community engagement,” according to the foundation. Community engagement, as defined by the foundation, focuses on the collaboration between institutions of higher education and their larger communities for the mutually beneficial exchange of knowledge and resources. “We appreciate this recognition by the Carnegie Foundation,” said CSUMB President Eduardo Ochoa.
</p><p>“Community engagement has been a cornerstone of CSUMB since our founding and its importance has only grown over the years. We want to continue to build on our tradition of service learning and to seek new and meaningful ways to build partnerships that help move our community forward,” the president said.
</p><p>In 1970, the Carnegie Commission on Higher Education developed the first <a href="http://carnegieclassifications.iu.edu">classification system</a> for American colleges and universities as a research tool to describe and represent the diversity of U.S. higher education. The Community Engagement category was first created in 2006, and the designation was awarded to CSUMB that year. It is one indication of the growing importance of community service and civic engagement as a priority for higher education.  <strong>About the university’s community engagement initiatives</strong> ?CSUMB's community engagement initiatives are diverse and originate from every academic program, emblematic of CSUMB's commitment to active learning and its concern for its role as a "steward of the region."
</p><p>CSUMB is one of the few universities in the nation – public or private – to have made <a href="http://service.csumb.edu">service learning</a> a graduation requirement for all students. Through service learning, all CSUMB academic departments and programs have been able to develop strong relationships throughout the community.
</p><p>Nearly half of CSUMB students enroll in service learning courses each year, contributing more than 65,000 hours of service to more than 250 schools, non&#45;profit organizations and government agencies in the region. A few examples of the university’s outstanding accomplishments in service learning and community engagement include:
</p><p>• CSUMB's <a href="http://service.csumb.edu/programs/chinatown&#45;renewal&#45;project">Chinatown Renewal Project</a>, which involves over 100 students each year in the revitalization of Chinatown neighborhood in Salinas;
</p><p>• <a href="http://ron.csumb.edu">Return of the Natives</a> environmental restoration project, which works with over 60 students in various environmental efforts;
</p><p>• The <a href="http://seafloor.otterlabs.org">Seafloor Mapping Project</a>, which develops detailed maps for state agencies;
</p><p>• The <a href="http://archaeology.csumb.edu/Courses/MissionArchaeology/introduction.htm">Mission Conservation Program</a>, which involves dozens of students in conservation and interpretation projects at the region's historic missions;
</p><p>• The <a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2014/aug/1/mastering&#45;math">Algebra Academy</a> and <a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2014/jun/25/high&#45;school&#45;students&#45;imagine&#45;college">Imagine College</a>, which work directly with local youth in college preparation courses. The university was honored with another community engagement award in December – the 2014 President’s Higher Education Community Service Honor Roll, awarded by the Corporation for National and Community Service. CSUMB is the only two&#45;time recipient of the prestigious President’s Award for Community Service in Higher Education.
</p><h3>‘Steinbeck: The Art of Fiction’ includes sculpture by VPA grad</h3><p>Work by alumnus Lew Aytes will be on display at the American Tin Cannery through March 31. The exhibit, “Steinbeck: The Art of Fiction,” features artistic interpretations of John Steinbeck’s work in sculpture, photography and painting.
</p><p>Aytes’ pieces are three&#45;dimensional faces that represent his visions of Steinbeck’s characters.
</p><p>Works by photographer Robert Nease and painter Warren Chang are included in the exhibit, along with the Robert Lewis exhibit of Cannery Row photographs from 1957&#45;58.
</p><p>The exhibit was created for the National Steinbeck Center by Aytes and Nease, and displayed there last year. The current exhibit has been expanded to include Chang’s paintings of fieldworkers and Lewis’ historic images of Cannery Row.
</p><p>Aytes earned a bachelor’s degree from Sacramento State, where he studied music performance and conducting, and an MBA in finance from California Southern University. A re&#45;entry student at CSUMB, he earned a degree in Visual and Public Art in 2012.
</p><p>On his <a href="http://www.lewaytes.com">website</a>, he says: “In one form or another, art has existed in my life as long as I have memory. My first conscious production of art was musical . . . Music also transported me into the medium of sculpture later in life.”
</p><p>The exhibit is on display on the second floor of the American Tin Cannery, 125 Ocean View Blvd., Pacific Grove. The building is located around the corner from the Monterey Bay Aquarium. &#42;Photos Top: John Steinbeck sculpture by Lew Aytes Above: Aytes hanging his work at last year's exhibit at the National Steinbeck Center&#42;
</p><p>Students, especially in grades 2 through 6, will get a chance to step into the outdoors and wrap their eager minds around the basics of natural science. The program is offered by Return of the Natives, part of the Watershed Institute at CSUMB. – The Salinas Californian, Oct. 13, 2010
</p><p>CSUMB men's soccer team earns national ranking – <em>Monterey Herald</em>, Sept. 20, 2013
</p><p>For the fifth consecutive year, Cal State Monterey Bay has been named a "military-friendly school" by G.I. Jobs magazine. –* The Salinas Californian*, Sept. 16, 2013
</p><p>The community is invited to a screening of Godfrey Reggio’s prophetic 1982 film, <em>Koyaanisqatsi</em> at 4 p.m., Oct. 1, in the TAT studio. The director will make a presentation and then screen the film. <em>Koyaanisqatsi</em> – “life out of balance” in the Hopi language – is a visual tone poem with no dialogue and no conventional plot, which the director describes as a reversal of the typical saying that “a picture is worth a thousand words,” and is instead “a thousand images to convey the power of one word.” The film presents a stunning montage of images from urban traffic to desert vistas to electronic circuits, accompanied by a score from Philip Glass to explore the threats posed to nature by modern civilization. One critic called it a “unique, contemplative film.”
</p><p>Said Walter Ryce in the Monterey County Weekly: "It is a wordless work that said much about the world then (1982), and the world we live in now."  The showing and talk kicks off the Philip Glass Center for the Arts, Science and the Environment's annual Days and Nights Festival at Big Sur's Henry Miller Library and Carmel's Sunset Center. <a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2013/sep/25/faculty-filmmakers-featured-days-and-nights-festival"><em>Faculty filmmakers' work screened at Days and Nights Festival</em></a>
</p><p>A seven-year stint in the U.S. Coast Guard offered Bridget Hoover many exciting experiences. It was also a time when she saw the water quality of the ocean at its worst.
</p><p>After responding to many oil spills off the Eastern Seaboard and the Northwest, this 1999 CSUMB graduate knew she had the potential to do something more.
</p><p>“It became very disheartening, and I wanted a job that was more proactive and preventative in nature. So that is how I directed my education,” said Hoover, who received a B.S. in Earth Systems Science &amp; Policy.
</p><p>For her senior capstone project, Hoover measured the water quality of runoff flowing from the outfalls in Monterey. She attributes her current career to the ESSP’s strong scientific foundation.
</p><p>Today, she is director of water quality protection for the Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary. Within the program Hoover and her staff work with cities to implement storm water management, assist agricultural industry efforts to reduce runoff into the ocean, and educate the community about preserving the Earth’s most valuable resource – water.
</p><p>“We all contribute to the pollution entering the sanctuary,” she said, “and we are all part of the solution.”
</p><h4>Public invited to free workshop Dec. 6</h4><p>“Save the Carmel River – Conserve Water Today” is the topic of the last class of the year offered by the Osher Lifelong Learning Institute (OLLI) at Cal State Monterey Bay.
</p><p>The free, hourlong class will be held at 6:30 p.m. on Monday, Dec. 6 in the OLLI annex, located on the corner of Inter-Garrison Road and Sixth Avenue on the CSUMB campus.
</p><p>The session will be led by CSUMB students Erin Frolli, Jessica Chapman, Kat Miller and Sarah Jeffries. The class will consist of a short lecture and tips on how to get rebates for household items (information will be specific for local water districts) and how to garden using drought-tolerant plants. Free plants – provided by CSUMB’s Return of the Natives project – will be given out.
</p><p>In addition, information will be provided on where to shop for drought-tolerant plants, sprinkler systems and more.
</p><p>Snacks will be provided. Register at the door at via e-mail at <a href="&#x6d;&#x61;&#x69;&#x6c;&#x74;&#x6f;&#x3a;&#x65;&#x66;&#x72;&#x6f;&#x6c;&#x6c;&#x69;&#64;&#99;&#115;&#117;&#109;&#98;&#46;&#101;&#100;&#117;">efrolli@csumb.edu</a>. For more information on OLLI at CSUMB, visit olli.csumb.edu Driving directions and a campus map are available at csumb.edu/map.
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><h3>Free concert April 25 features master musician Pedro Rosales</h3><p>The community is invited to experience Afro-Peruvian music on April 25 at a free concert on the campus of California State University, Monterey Bay.
</p><p>The performance features master Afro-Peruvian musician Pedro Rosales and his group, Proyecto Landó, an ensemble of 10 musicians and four dancers. With elements of jazz and salsa, the group provides a colorful and powerful swing that makes people want to dance – and attendees will have the chance to do just that.
</p><p>The evening includes an opportunity to talk with Rosales and his group about the music, the history of blacks in Peru, the relative influence of Afro-Peruvian culture in the three main regions of Peru (coast, mountain and Amazon), and the importance of black Peru within the wider African Diaspora.
</p><p>The performance will be held from 7 to 9 p.m. in the Black Box Cabaret, located adjacent to the Health and Wellness Services building on Inter-Garrison Road and Gen. Jim Moore Boulevard. Best place to park is the lot in front of Health and Wellness Services.
</p><p>While the concert is free, visitors must purchase a parking permit from a machine in the lot. Driving directions and a campus map are available <a href="http://csumb.edu/map">here.</a>
</p><p>For information or to request disability accommodations, call 582-3673. The event is sponsored by Special Events Funding, the College of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences and the Division of Humanities and Communication. <a href="http://hcom.csumb.edu/africana-studies">Learn about the Africana Studies concentration at CSUMB.</a>
</p><p>Cynthia Nelson Holmsky is joining CSU Monterey Bay in an administrative appointment to be director of the Monterey County Cradle to Career Partnership.
</p><p>In that capacity, Ms. Holmsky will be responsible for establishing the Cradle to Career Partnership as a catalyst for regional partners to work together, across sectors, and along the social and educational continuum to drive better results in education, for every child from cradle to career.
</p><p>The director will provide leadership and facilitate the achievement of the coalition’s goals to ensure that every child is prepared for school, supported inside and outside of school, succeeds in school, enrolls in some form of postsecondary education, graduates, and enters a career.
</p><p>The Monterey County Cradle to Career partnership will be based on a model adopted by more than 100 communities across the country that share best practices through the <a href="http://www.strivetogether.org/cradle-career-network">Cradle to Career Network</a>. 
</p><p>The network’s motto is “Every Child. Cradle to Career.” Cradle to Career Network communities promote a broad commitment among social service, education, business and philanthropic agencies to work together to achieve agreed-upon goals for student success.
</p><p>Since the first Cradle to Career partnership began in Cincinnati and Northern Kentucky in 2006, communities in 37 states and the District of Columbia have established programs.
</p><p>A Monterey resident, Ms. Holmsky has a background in non-profit and business organizations, including those devoted to student learning and career readiness. She comes to the university from a position as vice president for talent and organization development at Pacific Metrics Corp. in Monterey. Prior to that position, she was vice president for human resources at Shop.com and a consultant and general manager for the Big Sur Land Trust.
</p><p>In volunteer capacities, she has served as board president of Camp SEA Lab, a program that helps youngsters discover the ocean through summer camps and outdoor school programs; has been a board member of the YMCA of the Monterey Peninsula; and an adviser and grant writer for a local independent high school.
</p><p>She earned a master’s degree in human resource and organization development from the University of San Francisco.
</p><p>Ms. Holmsky will assume the position on Feb. 17.
</p><h3>Monologues tell women's stories</h3><p>The Vagina Monologues returns to CSU Monterey Bay Feb. 12, 13 and 14.
</p><p>The play has received rave reviews in San Francisco, Los Angeles and New York. Written by Eve Ensler, the "Vagina Monologues" tells the stories of a variety of women, their connections with each other and with the world.
</p><p>CSUMB's production is student&#45;run, student&#45;directed and features student actors. The monologues address issues such as rape, birth, sex and relationships; some are serious, some are funny, all are enlightening and explore new and interesting viewpoints for both men and women.
</p><p>The play's staging at CSUMB is part of this year's V&#45;Day campaign. V&#45;Day's mission: to celebrate women and girls and to stop the sexual violence being perpetrated against them all over the world. V&#45;Day has raised millions of dollars since it started 15 years ago and has been named one of Worth Magazine's "100 Best Charities." V&#45;Day has grown exponentially, from an underground feminist event to a mainstream media one. Benefit performances are scheduled around the world in connection with Valentine's Day.
</p><p>The CSUMB production is put on by EMPOWER, a student organization that educates the community about violence against women. A portion of the proceeds will be donated to local organizations working to do just that. This year's production will feature new monologues. Parents, please note the mature content and adult themes of the play.
</p><p>Tickets may be purchased by calling 582&#45;4580.
</p><p><strong>DETAILS</strong>
</p><p><strong>Event</strong>: Vagina Monologues
</p><p><strong>Where</strong>: World Theater on Sixth Avenue
</p><p><strong>When</strong>: Feb. 12, 13, 14; all performances at 8 p.m.
</p><p><strong>Tickets</strong>: $15 general admission; $10 students with ID and seniors
</p><p><strong>Parking</strong>: Attendees must purchase a permit from a machine on the parking lot
</p><p>For more than a century, the Delta Sigma Theta sorority has been committed to public service, with a primary focus on the black community. Now, there is a chapter at CSU Monterey Bay, the first historically African American sorority established on campus. The Upsilon Xi chapter was chartered in April with seven members: Diamond Gaskins, Shiyla Goodie, Nancy Her, Brigette Johnson, Tyler Posey, Courtney Thomas and Tiffany Williams.
</p><p>The chapter plans service projects for the fall that focus on physical and mental health issues that include all students, specifically geared toward under-represented women.
</p><p>Delta Sigma Theta is the largest black Greek organization in the country. More than a thousand chapters have initiated 200,000 members. It was founded in 1913 at Howard University to promote academic excellence and provide assistance to those in need.
</p><p>Delta Sigma Theta is the eighth sorority to be chartered at CSUMB; six fraternities are also active. (A complete list can be found <a href="http://activities.csumb.edu/multicultural-greek-council-0">here</a>.)
</p><p>"We are grateful for CSUMB's enthusiastic support for a collegiate chapter. Upsilon Xi will extend Delta's legacy of scholarship, service and sisterhood to the campus community, while connecting members committed to public service," said Brenda Grayson Shinault, the chapter's primary adviser and a member of the sorority’s Monterey Peninsula alumnae chapter.
</p><p>*From left to right: Tiffany Williams; Nancy Her; Courtney Thomas; President of the Monterey Peninsula alumnae chapter Chasette Harper; Far West regional director Sandra Philips Johnson; Tyler Posey, Brigette Johnson, Shiyla Goodie, and Diamond Gaskins. *
</p><h3>Kinship Center collaborates with CSUMB</h3><p>Cal State Monterey Bay faculty member Kathryn England-Aytes believes in the power of real-world experience. As a lecturer in psychology, she works to give her students a chance to learn first-hand from professionals. This semester, students in her clinical psychology course are getting that opportunity thanks to a collaboration with the Kinship Center, a nonprofit that provides mental health and counseling services to children and families touched by adoption, foster care, relative caregiving or legal guardianship. Professionals at the Kinship Center are providing students with a look at the field of child welfare and mental health. Using clinical theory, hands-on activities and lectures at the center’s Salinas campus, the course brings real-life applications to students considering careers in the mental health field. The Kinship Center, a member of the Seneca Family of Agencies, has been honored nationally for its life-changing outcomes for more than 2,500 children each year through therapeutic foster care, kinship (relative) care, mental health services for children and families, intensive support for families in crisis, prevention programs to keep children out of child welfare, adoption and education and training for parents and professionals. “We’re excited about this collaboration,” Professor England-Aytes said. “It’s already connecting students with the community in ways that make us proud." Kinship staff members will deliver six lectures during the course of the semester, covering topics including cultural issues, child trauma, behavioral psychotherapy, group and family therapy and working with children and adolescents. After two lectures, students are clearly enthusiastic. Student evaluations have included these comments:
</p><p>?• “This experience has helped me choose my area of future study.” • “Great information from first-hand accounts.” • “The lectures get me thinking about what I really want to do with my education.” Kinship co-founder Carol Biddle said she is “delighted” to partner with the university to give students a better understanding of the practical applications of their educational program. She noted that the center has hired a number of CSUMB psychology graduates over the years. The center has also provided placements for students in CSUMB’s master’s program in social work, including two former students of England-Aytes.
</p><p>"Being able to share our remarkable psychology students with the mental health care community before they are seeking career positions is helpful for them; Kinship Center makes it truly meaningful," Professor England-Aytes said. <a href="http://csumb.edu/psychology">Learn about the psychology program at CSUMB</a>. <a href="http://www.kinshipcenter.org">Learn about the Kinship Center</a>
</p><p><em>Clinical psychology students enjoy the benefits of a collaboration with the Kinship Center. Professor Kathryn England-Aytes is pictured at far left.  </em>
</p><p>Oct. 12, 2010
</p><p><strong>CHECK OUT THE VIDEO FROM THE MISSION <a href="http://isc.gso.uri.edu/oceanslive">HERE</a></strong>
</p><p>On Oct. 12, Dr. James Lindholm and graduate student Jessica Watson embarked on a scientific mission inside the world's only undersea research station.
</p><p>The station, named the Aquarius Undersea Laboratory, is similar to the International Space Station. But while astronauts explore outer space, "aquanauts explore inner space," said Watson.
</p><p>The pair, along with four other researchers, will live underwater for 10 days, diving eight hours a day to study coral reefs in the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary. Two other CSUMB students, Chelsea Parrish-Kuhn and Alexandra Davis, are also in Florida, working from the surface to support the underwater team.
</p><p>The Aquarius is about the size of a mobile home. It's equipped with hot showers, an Internet connection and other communications equipment. (And it's loaded with freeze-dried "hiker foods, reconstituted with hot water," Dr. Lindholm said.)
</p><p>It's owned by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and operated by the University of North Carolina Wilmington. It sits 60 feet underwater, four miles from shore off Key Largo. Its mission: scientific research, coral reef and ocean observation, undersea technology development, training, and ocean education and outreach. Since 1994, it has hosted 90 missions.
</p><p>The current mission is entitled "Aquarius 2010: If Reefs Could Talk." It is designed to bring the science of ocean conservation and the underwater world to classrooms and communities nationwide. Live broadcasts each day will focus on biodiversity, climate change and technology for field science.
</p><p>Although the aquanauts will be taking the time to conduct live broadcasts, their main focus is still the science behind the mission. They are studying the behavioral interactions of fishes that live in a range of coral habitats across the reef area.
</p><p>Living in Aquarius, Dr. Lindholm said, allows scientists to conduct research over an extended period of time. It's called saturation diving, when the body is completely saturated with nitrogen.
</p><p>Surface diving allows scientists a limited amount of time to reach the bottom and collect data before the body begins to "bend" ­– experiencing pain, said Dr. Lindholm, director of the Institute for Applied Marine Ecology or IfAME at CSUMB. But with saturation diving, he said, they can spend hours each day swimming with the fish they are studying.
</p><p>"There's a lot more time to observe things, things that you may not see elsewhere," he said.
</p><p>All this information will help marine biologists everywhere have a much better understanding of coral reef communities and how diverse species interact to find prey and avoid predators.
</p><p>The reason for the educational component is simple: A more informed public will make better decisions about what they do in their everyday lives and how those actions impact the world's most important resource – the oceans.
</p><p>This is Dr. Lindholm's fifth saturation mission and Watson's first.
</p><p>"I'm so thankful to have this opportunity," she said a few days before leaving for Florida. "I'll get to see the fish I'm studying." For her master's thesis, Watson is exploring how the feeding and swimming behaviors of three kinds of fish influence their movements.
</p><p>More information, including a schedule of broadcasts is available here: <a href="http://sanctuaries.noaa.gov/missions/2010aquarius/" title="http://sanctuaries.noaa.gov/missions/2010aquarius/">http://sanctuaries.noaa.gov/missions/2010aquarius/</a>
</p><p>Follow the mission on Twitter: <a href="http://twitter.com/sanctuaries" title="http://twitter.com/sanctuaries">http://twitter.com/sanctuaries</a>
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p>Move over, Rube Goldberg. There's a new generation of inventors out there, melding old and new technology to create fascinating stuff. It was evident Friday afternoon as 17 students in the Inventor's Workshop, part of CSU Monterey Bay's Summer Arts program, displayed their works. – <em>The Salinas Californian</em>, July 14, 2014
</p><p>The first practice of the basketball season didn't feel that way for Kerri Nakamoto. The CSU Monterey Bay women's basketball coach had been interacting with the play for the last couple of weeks. – <em>The Salinas Californian</em>, Oct. 18, 2013
</p><h3>‘Harold Heath’ is back in the water</h3><p>CSU Monterey Bay’s new research vessel, the Harold Heath, was launched on May 16 after three months of extensive work in dry dock.
</p><p>Santa Cruz attorney Paul Meltzer donated the 46-foot Hatteras sport fishing yacht to the university last December. The boat was renamed “Harold Heath” in honor of Mr. Meltzer’s great-grandfather, a marine scientist and Stanford University professor.
</p><p>With the refitting – which included mounting sonar devices and other equipment – the vessel is ready for use by CSUMB’s Seafloor Mapping Lab (SFML), where it will support marine research, training and education. It is also equipped to support remotely operated vehicles and habitat survey work done by the university’s Institute for Applied Marine Ecology.
</p><p>After the launch in Moss Landing Harbor, finishing touches were added in preparation for the SFML’s field season this summer.
</p><p>That work involves mapping the last remaining section of state waters, along the southern Big Sur coast. “Because of the remote nature of this part of the coast, the work will require that we spend four or five days at a time at sea,” said Rikk Kvitek, a professor in the Division of Science and Environmental Policy and director of the lab.
</p><p>“The Hatteras – which can accommodate a crew of five for extended stays at sea – is ideal for this work.”
</p><p>The SFML has been instrumental in the ongoing California Seafloor Mapping Project, an effort to create the first comprehensive, high-resolution map of California’s state waters – from the shoreline out three nautical miles. The project involves industry, resource management agencies and universities. Final products will include a series of maps showing the seafloor and coastal geology in unprecedented detail.
</p><p>Once the seafloor mapping project is finished, the boat will be used as a base for launching smaller vessels, like jet skis, rigged with video equipment and other devices to conduct further research near coastlines and other hard-to-reach spots.
</p><p>To learn more about the Seafloor Mapping Lab at CSUMB, click <a href="http://seafloor.csumb.edu/">here</a>.
</p><p>To learn about CSUMB’s new degree program in marine science, click <a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2010/sep/22/new-marine-science-bs-awaits-approval">here</a>.  
</p><p>CSU Monterey Bay was a finalist for the Presidential Award as part of the 2012 President’s Higher Education Community Service Honor Roll, the highest federal recognition a college or university can receive for its commitment to community service.
</p><p>The Corporation for National and Community Service received applications from more than 640 colleges and universities. Five received the Presidential Award; 14 were named finalists.
</p><p>In 2006, the program’s inaugural year, CSU Monterey Bay was one of three recipients of the top award. It has been named to the Honor Roll each year since then. The university earned the top honor again last year, making it the only two-time recipient of the President’s Award.
</p><p>"Not only is service learning woven into our curriculum," President Dianne Harrison said, "it also is part of our university's ethos of engaging with and contributing to our surrounding communities."
</p><p>The university was honored in the category of general community service, which recognizes the quality of and commitment to community service initiatives, and emphasizes long-term partnerships and measurable outcomes as a result of the service.
</p><p>Salinas Public Library and fútbol – an inspiring match helped along by Service Learners. <a href="http://service.csumb.edu/sites/default/files/101/attachments/files/sp_12_reflections.pdf">Read about it here</a>
</p><p>CSUMB is the only public university in California, and one of the few nationally, where service learning is a requirement for all students. Each year, nearly 50 percent of CSUMB’s students enroll in service learning courses contributing more than 65,000 hours of service to more than 250 schools, non-profit organizations and government agencies in the tri-county area. And service learning is an academic department, where issues of service, diversity, social justice and social responsibility are linked to the core curriculum.
</p><p>“It’s wonderful to see our program being recognized nationally and even internationally,” said Dr. Seth Pollack, director of CSUMB’s Service Learning Institute.
</p><p>“No other university in the country has made as significant a commitment to developing students’ capacity for service and social responsibility,” Dr. Pollack said.
</p><p>“We have a very special program, and it feels great to again be recognized as a national leader.”
</p><p>The awards ceremony was held March 12 in Los Angeles.
</p><p>According to the Corporation for National and Community Service, honorees are chosen based on a series of selection factors, including the scope and innovation of service projects, the extent to which service-learning is embedded in the curriculum, the school’s commitment to long-term campus-community partnerships, and measurable community outcomes as a result of the service. <a href="http://service.csumb.edu/">Learn more about the Service Learning Institute at CSUMB</a>.
</p><h3>Lysley Tenorio visits campus April 8 as part of Asian Pacific Islander Heritage Month</h3><p>Short-story writer Lysley Tenorio will read from his work April 8 at CSU Monterey Bay. The public is invited to this free event.
</p><p>Tenorio is the author of <em>Monstress</em>, which binds together eight tales of isolated misfits in San Francisco and the Philippines. They have been described as “tender” and “quirky,” written from the point of view of charlatans, B movie starlets, superhero obsessives and transgender cocktail waitresses.
</p><p>NPR said of the stories: “Filipino traditions meet Californian modernity again and again, each encounter revealing something unexpected about both cultures.”
</p><p>The roots of Tenorio's tales are buried in his family's decision to immigrate to California when he was 7 months old. He grew up in a home eager to assimilate.
</p><p>His stories have appeared in <em>The Atlantic</em> magazine and <em>The Best New American Voices</em> and Pushcart Prize anthologies. A Whiting Writer's Award winner and a former Stegner Fellow at Stanford University, he has received fellowships from the University of Wisconsin and the National Endowment for the Arts.
</p><p>Tenorio lives in San Francisco and is an associate professor at Saint Mary’s College of California.
</p><p>The event will be held at 7 p.m. in the University Center living room, located on Sixth Avenue and B Street. While the reading is free, visitors must purchase a parking permit from a machine on the lot. Driving directions and a campus map are available <a href="http://csumb.edu/maps">here</a>. 
</p><p>Tenorio’s appearance is part of CSUMB’s celebration of Asian Pacific Islander Heritage Month and is part of a series of readings called Writers from the Edge. In March, poet Aimee Suzara read from her first full-length collection, <em>Souvenir</em>. The series started in February with a reading by novelist Keenan Norris.
</p><p>For more information, contact Professor Ernest Stromberg at 582-3114.
</p><p>The reading is sponsored by the Division of Humanities and Communication; the College of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences; Student Activities and Leadership Development; Asian Pacific Islander Association; and the Office of Inclusive Excellence.
</p><p><em>Tenorio…has taken a uniquely Filipino-American perspective, polyglot and glittering with cinema dreams, and used it to make a bold collection of stories of the rejected, the helpless and the lost. Monstress is the debut of a singular talent.</em> ?– NPR
</p><p>*. . . refreshingly off-kilter…his stories are impeccably constructed, leading us calmly but insistently through the characters’ external and internal landscapes.* ?– The New York Times Book Review
</p><p>Head baseball coach Walt White’s tenure at CSUMB is off to a good start with the early signing of nine recruits for fall 2011.
</p><p>“This is the best early-sign class I have had in my 16 years of coaching,” White said. “This is a deep, balanced, dynamic, and athletic class that will come in and have a huge impact on our program. Every one of these players has great baseball ability, but more importantly, they bring an attitude and personality to our program that will set the tone for this baseball team from here on out.”
</p><p>With the new recruits, White thinks his team will have the potential to emerge as a national power.
</p><p>“The recruiting process by our staff was all about building relationships, trust, and the belief in our program by these players. This is the first step of something very special. We will put this recruiting class up against any other one in the nation . . . at any level.”
</p><p>The recruits are:
</p><p>• Matt Blake, right-handed pitcher from West Ranch High School. Blake was part of two playoff teams in the very tough Foothill Athletic League. Through fall games, he sports a 1.81 ERA.
</p><p>• Chris Blanton, first baseman, outfielder, left-handed pitcher from Burlingame High School. Blanton’s team won the Central Coast Section Division II Championship in 2010. As a junior, he was named All-Peninsula Athletic League first team, All-San Mateo County first team and All-Northern California second team. Blanton was also named to the all-tournament team in the prestigious NorCal World Series. He holds Burlington school records for RBI in a game (6) and in a season (37).
</p><p>• Steven Farnworth, right-handed pitcher from West Ranch High School. In the Valley Invitational League, Farnworth compiled a 2.62 ERA with 32 strikeouts in 24 innings, and a 4.5 strikeout/walk ratio. • Devin Finn, outfielder from Amador Valley High School. Finn led his team to an East Bay Athletic League title and the first North Coast Section title in school history. During his junior year, Finn batted .330 with five doubles. • Nolan Flashman, right-handed pitcher from University High School. During his junior season at University, Flashman earned an All-League first team selection with a 4-2 record, 2.28 ERA and.197 opponent batting average. He was also dominant at the plate, hitting .426 with 30 RBI.
</p><p>• Garrett Gemgnani, catcher from Culver City High School. As a junior, he was the most valuable player in the Ocean Athletic League, batting .326 with 30 runs scored and 32 runs batted in while flashing supreme defensive skills. • Matt Urakami, infielder from Branham High School. An All-Blossom Valley Athletic League first team infielder in 2010, he hit .402 with a .622 slugging percentage and a .510 on-base percentage. He is widely considered one of the premier defensive players in Northern California. • Cody Van Aken, right-handed pitcher and catcher from Live Oak High School. Van Aken is a threat on the mound and behind the plate. The All-Blossom Valley Athletic League first-team selection batted .391 with a .596 slugging percentage and 18 runs batted in. As a pitcher he went 4-3, striking out 29 batters in 35 innings. • Jesse White, catcher from Salinas High School. White led the Cowboys to a 22-8 record in 2010 behind the plate with his stellar glove work and rocket arm. He was named to the All-Tri-County Athletic League second team.
</p><p>Coach White joined CSUMB in July after 15 seasons as an assistant at Sonoma State. In 2008, he was instrumental in leading the Seawolves to a third-place finish in the NCAA Division II World Series after winning the CCAA and NCAA West Regional championships.
</p><p>He was the starting shortstop at Sonoma State in 1993 and 1994, then spent five seasons in the Florida Marlins minor-league system and three years at Triple A Tucson in the Arizona Diamondbacks’ organization. In 2002, he returned to Sonoma State to earn his bachelor’s degree in kinesiology. In 2005, he received a master’s degree in education from the University of Phoenix.
</p><p>To read Coach White’s comments on each player, click <a href="http://otterathletics.com/news/2010/11/29/BB_1129103236.aspx" title="http://otterathletics.com/news/2010/11/29/BB_1129103236.aspx">http://otterathletics.com/news/2010/11/29/BB_1129103236.aspx</a>  
</p><h3>Find out at lecture, concert on April 12</h3><p>The intersection of music and technology will be on display April 12 in the CSU Monterey Bay Music Hall.
</p><p>In a lecture-demonstration at 1 pm., composer and music technologist Steven Kemper will discuss the growing field of musical robotics and his work with Expressive Machines Musical Instruments (EMMI), a collective dedicated to creating and composing music for robotic instruments.
</p><p>He will also demonstrate TAPI – Transportable Automatic Percussion Instrument – created by EMMI.
</p><p>Kemper composes acoustic and electronic music for humans, computers and robots. He earned a Ph.D. in 2012 from the University of Virginia in the Composition and Computer Technologies program.
</p><p>At 7 p.m., the public is invited to an evening of interactive electronic music, from experimental to beat-based.
</p><p>“Beats, bellies &amp; bots: A concert of interactive belly dance and electronic music” will be performed by Kemper and composer-performer Aurie Hsu. The lecture-concert highlights compositions and improvisations featuring interactive belly dance and electronic music. Kemper and Hsu co-created the RAKS (Remote electroAcoustic Kinesthetic Sensing) system, a wireless sensor interface for belly dance movement.
</p><p>The event is free, but visitors must purchase a $2 parking permit. The Music Hall is located on Sixth Avenue near Butler Street. <a href="http://csumb.edu/map">Driving directions and a campus map are available here.</a>  
</p><p>CSUMB had a notable fall sports season when it came to academics. Thirty-two student-athletes were selected for CCAA all-academic teams. – <em>The Salinas Californian</em>, Dec. 19, 2014
</p><p>California State University, Monterey Bay’s World Theater will present a tribute to the greatest hits of the 1950s and ’60s when The Alley Cats perform on Oct. 20.
</p><p>Showtime is 7:30 p.m.
</p><p>By bringing their own contemporary style to tunes from that era, The Alley Cats appeal to fans of all ages, breathing new life into everyone's favorite doo-wop classics.
</p><p>For the uninitiated, doo-wop is an ebullient, rhythm and blues-fueled harmony vocal style where one person sings lead and the others harmonize or mimic the sounds of instruments behind them. It rose to prominence in the 1950s. The first real boy bands, before N’Sync and the Backstreet Boys, were doo-wop groups like the Del Vikings and Dion and the Belmonts, and in the Motown era, The Temptations, Four Tops and Miracles.
</p><p>The four members of The Alley Cats are a perfect blend both vocally and personally. Every Alley Cat performance is accompanied by the sounds of laughter and voices joining in to sing the melodies we all know and love.
</p><p>The Cats' engaging wit and humor have won over audiences nationally as they relate directly to the crowd with jokes, stories and audience participation that appeals to young and old alike. Tight harmonies, universal humor, and unbelievable a cappella energy have made The Alley Cats America's premier doo-wop group.
</p><p>The group has performed with Jay Leno, the Beach Boys and at the White House.
</p><p>Tickets are $40 premium, $29 general. Discounts are available for students and seniors. Tickets can be purchased online at csumb.edu/worldtheater or by calling the box office at 582-4580.
</p><p>Driving directions and a campus map are available <a href="http://csumb.edu/map">here</a>.  
</p><h5>To see a gallery of photos from the first day of practice, click here
	 </h5><p>On your mark, get set and go.
</p><p>The CSU Monterey Bay’s fall athletic teams – cross country, soccer and volleyball – kicked off their 2011 seasons on Aug. 15 with each team’s first official practice.
</p><p>The Otter soccer programs are under new leadership, with Rob Cummings guiding the men's side and Erin Reinke leading the women's team. With a lot of new faces, both squads will strive to garner some attention in the California Collegiate Athletic Association (CCAA) this season.
</p><p>“I'm not sure how much you actually learn from the very first practice, but it was great to finally get out on the field and start working,” Cummings said. “We have a lot of new faces and it will be fun to start putting the pieces together.”
</p><p>Reinke echoed that feeling.
</p><p>“It's great to finally get everybody on the field,” Reinke said. “This is an important time for us. The work and preparation we do over the next few weeks is where we will learn to compete at the level we expect.”
</p><p>Practicing on a freshly resurfaced floor in the Kelp Bed, the Otter volleyball student-athletes came out crushing balls. Their focus is on preparing for their first game, a newly scheduled home match-up against Notre Dame de Namur on Aug. 30.
</p><p>“Day 1 is down,” said volleyball head coach Jody Garry. “I was really impressed with our returning starting libero Dionna Lucas. You can tell she had another good summer.”
</p><p>The key to any team is defense and the defensive leader, Garry said.
</p><p>The men's and women's cross country teams will field the most talented runners in program history. The full squad of 25 can be found running the old Fort Ord trails.
</p><p>“It was almost overwhelming seeing so many new faces on the first day,” said cross-country head coach Greg Rhines. “It was very exciting to see so many talented runners training together.”
</p><p>For more information, including rosters and schedules, click <a href="http://otterathletics.com">here</a>.  
</p><p> 
</p><p>. . . the film festival on Dec. 19 was one of the most energizing events of the year. It's the energy of the young filmmakers that turns it out.  – &#42;Monterey County Weekly&#42;, Dec. 31, 2014
</p><p>Elementary and middle-school students from across Monterey County are jump-starting their college careers with a summer program at the local state university. As part of CSU Monterey Bay's Junior Otters program, now in its third year, 240 migrant education students are practicing their math and language arts skills on the college campus. – The Salinas Californian, July 23, 2011
</p><p>With a computer keystroke on July 29, President Dianne Harrison filed a report that earned CSU Monterey Bay a gold rating from the nation’s leading advocacy group for sustainability in higher education. The university is one of only 18 institutions to receive that distinction.
</p><p>CSUMB becomes the first campus in the California State University system and the second public university in California to qualify for the gold rating from the Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education.
</p><p>The rating, awarded in the organization's STARS program, signifies that the university is doing an outstanding job of going “green” in areas ranging from curriculum and construction to conservation of resources. STARS – which stands for Sustainability Tracking, Assessment and Rating System – measures and encourages sustainability in education and research, operations, and planning, administration and engagement.
</p><p>The rating is the result of a thorough, yearlong self-evaluation process that involved faculty, staff and students. STARS is a widely used sustainability self-assessment tool that helps colleges evaluate and publicly report how they’re doing, where they can improve, what peers are doing and mark progress over time.
</p><p>Examples of CSUMB’s sustainable practices: • Education and research: All students are required to take service learning courses that address sustainability; 35 percent of tenure-track faculty members are conducting research relating to sustainability. • Waste reduction: 90 percent of construction and demolition debris is diverted from landfills. • Water conservation: drought-tolerant landscaping, waterless urinals • Energy efficiency: reduced energy consumption by more than 25 percent over five years • Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions: All members of the campus community have access to free public transportation throughout the region.
</p><p>“The idea of sustainability is embedded in the curriculum here at CSUMB,” said Kevin Saunders, vice president for administration and finance. “We’re educating the region on these issues.”
</p><p>And because it is embedded in the curriculum, “Our students – who are our future leaders – can move through their lives and careers with this ethic of sustainability,” President Harrison said. In the innovation category, the university earned the maximum four points for: • The annual Focus the Region event, a daylong teach-in on environmental issues  • The Chinatown Renewal Project, an effort to help revitalize a blighted though historically rich neighborhood in Salinas. Sustainability has been a consistent theme in these efforts, which include a community garden where organic food is grown; workshops on natural building techniques; a composting enterprise; a solar-energy-generating gazebo; and a vermiculture micro-enterprise. • Planning for and use of electric vehicles • The TRIPwise program, an effort to educate the campus community about alternate forms of transportation and make them accessible.
</p><p>With the evaluation complete, CSUMB will continue to seek further gains in such areas as energy management, alternative transportation and waste reduction.
</p><p>“This is a starting point,” President Harrison said. “We know there are many more things we can do."  
</p><p>John Avella has been elected to the Monterey County Hospitality Association’s board of directors. Dr. Avella, assistant professor of hospitality management and hotel/resort management in CSU Monterey Bay's School of Business, will join the board in January. He’ll serve on the association’s education committee. His background includes 40 years of human resource development and teaching experience in the hospitality industry and higher education. He has been vice president of human resources for Marriott Corporation, The Rainbow Room and Windows on the World, and president of Human Resource Concepts. His work focused on management and executive development, customer service and organizational strategic change. His clients included Marriott Corporation, University of Florida, and Hilton Hotels, to name a few. Dr. Avella has taught on the graduate and undergraduate level at Columbia University, Empire State College, Fairleigh Dickinson University and City University of New York. In 2001, he was director of human resources for the food service group at the Salt Lake City Olympics – an operation that served 125,000 meals per day. In 2011, he was a consultant on tourism issues in Anhui Province, China. He has a doctorate from Columbia University, with a concentration in Adult and Organizational Learning. Among his research interests is the application of emotional intelligence to customer service/loyalty, emotional labor and leadership. He has developed a process that teaches people to “connect” to the customer and staff to create loyalty.
</p><p><a href="http://csumb.edu/business">Learn more about the School of Business at CSUMB</a>.
</p><p><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2012/nov/25/faculty-highlights"><em>Read more faculty news</em></a>  
</p><p>Each year, hundreds of CSU students study abroad. Some debate international politics in Germany, some savor gelato in Italy, some learn about architecture – and enjoy the beaches of South Africa. This year, Guadalupe Arias is one of 81 CSU Monterey Bay students studying in 26 countries. The senior humanities major from Sacramento is spending the year at the Universidad de Granada in southern Spain.
</p><p>Like Arias, the majority of CSUMB students who study abroad do so for a full academic year.
</p><p>“We encourage students to stay that long in order to learn the language and customs and feel like a local rather than a traveler," said Holly White, CSUMB's international program manager.
</p><p>As she begins her second semester, Arias said she has adapted quite well to the culture and customs of Spain.
</p><p>“I start my day with a warm <em>café con leche</em>, a Spanish <em>tostada</em> and fresh orange juice,” she wrote in a photo essay on the CSU website. “From 2 to 4 in the afternoon, the Spanish have their siestas. At the beginning, I felt guilty for having two hours to nap and relax, but I have adjusted to the Spanish way of living. “I use that free time to do homework or take walks around the city.” She reported that she’s enjoying her classes and likes Granada’s proximity to the Mediterranean.  “I left home with an open mind and ready to absorb other cultures. Half of Granada’s population is composed of students from all over Europe and the Americas. I have learned so much about other parts of the world since I’ve been here,” she said. “This is my new home.” View a photo essay of Arias’ time in Spain <a href="http://www.calstate.edu/ip/photo-essays/country/spain/2011/arias/">here</a>.
</p><p>Learn more from CSUMB’s Office of International Programs <a href="http://international.csumb.edu/index.htm">here</a>.
</p><p>Visit the CSU Office of International Programs <a href="http://calstate.edu/ip">here</a>.
</p><p><em>Photos courtesy of Guadalupe Arias Top photo: Arias at the </em>Universidad de Granada *Bottom photo: The university's *Centro de Lenguas Modernas
</p><h3>Annual event celebrates legacy of late labor leader </h3><p>CSU Monterey Bay will be closed on March 30 in honor of Cesar Chavez.  Chavez led the non-violent movement for farm workers’ rights, a movement that extended beyond the fields and into cities and towns across the nation, and helped found the National Farm Workers Association, which later became the United Farm Workers (UFW). Even with campus closed, the university community is still in action. On that day, and during the following weeks, many faculty, staff and students dedicate their time to both service and learning. ??March 30 will mark the start of CSUMB’s second annual Cesar Chavez Challenge, a 36-day community service drive – it ends on Cinco de Mayo – coordinated by the Purposeful Service Opportunities program. PSO is a joint project of the AmeriCorps VIP program and the Service Learning Institute. The theme for this year’s challenge is “Creating a Culture of Service,” and involves a friendly competition among student clubs, Greek organizations, athletic teams and residence halls to document 3,600 hours of service.
</p><p>This year, extra points will be awarded for uploading photos to a Facebook page that show volunteers at work, and registering for an online volunteer account with the Volunteer Center of Monterey County. Also new this year: Points will be awarded for philanthropic efforts, such as fundraisers and food drives, and for civic engagement, such as voter registration and attendance at city council meetings.
</p><p>Registration, contest rules and point system can be found <a href="http://service.csumb.edu/cesar-chavez-challenge">here</a>. Volunteer opportunities on or around Cesar Chavez Day include: • The Comics for Kids fundraiser for the Boys and Girls Clubs of Monterey County, March 27-31
</p><p>• The PURSUIT Youth Expo at the University Center ballroom, April 13. Mandatory volunteer training, March 31 • The 30-Hour Famine, sponsored by the Otter Christian Fellowship, March 30 and 31 • <a href="http://ron.csumb.edu/">Return of the Natives</a> clean-up effort, March 31
</p><p>For information on the above opportunities, click <a href="http://service.csumb.edu/purposeful-service-opportunities">here</a>. To learn more about CSUMB's Service Learning Institute, click <a href="http://service.csumb.edu">here.</a>
</p><p><em>The end of all education should surely be service to others. – Cesar Chavez</em>  
</p><p>Oct. 12, 2010
</p><p>As part of the California Library Association's "Snapshot: One Day in the Life of California Libraries," CSU Monterey Bay joined others throughout the state – including 19 other CSU campuses – to gather statistics for a typical day.
</p><p>All information was collected for one day during the week of Oct. 4; CSUMB collected its data on Oct. 5.
</p><p>The information reflects the libraries' invaluable services and will be used to advocate for libraries in Sacramento in November. Insights gathered from "snapshot" data will also help the CSU libraries improve and enhance their collections and services, according to the CSU Chancellor's Office.
</p><p>On Oct. 5, nearly 3,700 people visited the Tanimura and Antle Family Memorial Library at CSUMB. Kathlene Hanson, the library's electronic resources coordinator who was in charge of gathering data, said that number needs to be put in context.
</p><p>It represents the total number of times people walked through the doors. "That includes everyone who used the building as a shortcut to get from the café side to the classroom side; and, it counts people who entered multiple times," she said. "Nevertheless, it's an impressive number."
</p><p>Perhaps more important is the number of times the library's website was accessed that day: 40,670. Nearly 400 people used the library's computers, and another 600 used their own computers in the building.
</p><p>Despite today's transition to digital media, the American Library Association reports that visits to college libraries are on the rise – partly due to the fact that academic libraries are adapting to meet students' changing needs.
</p><p>University libraries are unique. Not only do they foster research and innovation, they prepare students to enter the knowledge&#45;based workforce upon graduation.
</p><p>Support for academic success is the primary mission of the CSUMB library. It's student&#45;centered, with student&#45;friendly spaces for study, for group work, and for co&#45;curricular programs. It's an active social space &#40;with a café and outdoor patio&#41; that supports student learning.
</p><p>Like other modern libraries, the one at CSUMB is collaborative, technology&#45;infused and adaptive to change. It's a place to get access to information in many formats and from many sources. Mobile access as well as "Ask a Librarian," a program that allows students to get help via instant messaging, are extending services beyond the physical walls of the building.
</p><p>Kim Bui&#45;Burton, California Library Association president and director of the Monterey Public Library, has pointed out that library usage is up across the state and demand is growing for books and other resources, knowledgeable staff assistance and computer/Internet access – despite budget cuts, reduced hours and programs.
</p><p>"Snapshot" statistics will demonstrate to decision makers the extent that students, other library users and future leaders rely on California libraries for critical services, resources and programs – "now, more than ever," Bui&#45;Burton said.
</p><p><a href="http://library.csumb.edu.">Learn more about CSUMB's library</a>.
</p><p>Oct. 10, 2010
</p><p>The Greater Vision series of public forums on topics relevant to local agriculture continues Oct. 22, when industry professionals, educators and elected officials meet at California State University, Monterey Bay to discuss "Our Shared Legacy: Land and Water."
</p><p>The forum will be held in the University Center on Sixth Avenue, starting at 1 p.m.
</p><p>Assemblywoman Anna Caballero will be the keynote speaker. Her topic: Land and Water – A Mosaic of Public Interests. In her remarks, she will provide some context for understanding public policy from the local, regional and state levels.
</p><p>A panel chaired by Jim Bogart of the Grower-Shipper Association will look at issues surrounding land use. Panelists will include Bill Leahy of the Big Sur Land Trust, Bob Roach of the Monterey County Agricultural Commissioner's Office, Amy White of Landwatch Monterey County, and But Lindley, local grower and former member of the county Board of Supervisors.
</p><p>A panel chaired by Darlene Din of the Grower-Shipper Association Foundation will look at conflicts and solutions around water issues. Panelists will include Dr. Marc Los Huertos of CSUMB, Catherine Bowie of California American Water, Kay Mercer of Central Coast Ag Water Coalition and Curtis Weeks of the Monterey County Water Resources Agency.
</p><p>Salinas Mayor Dennis Donahue will offer closing remarks on where the community goes from here.
</p><p>CSUMB's School of Business, the Grower-Shipper Association Foundation and the Central Coast Ag Task Force are sponsoring the forum, one in a series of discussions on agriculture-related issues open to the public.
</p><p>The event is free to the public. Driving directions and a campus map are available at csumb.edu/map.
</p><p>The day's schedule: 12:30-1 p.m. – Check-in at University Center on Sixth Avenue 1-1:10 p.m. – Opening remarks by Dr. Brad Barbeau of CSUMB's School of Business
</p><p>1:10-1:20 p.m. – Welcome remarks by CSUMB President Dianne Harrison
</p><p>1:20-1:30 p.m. – Overview of Greater Vision Series by Dr. Marylou Shockley, chair of the School of Business
</p><p>1:30-1:55 p.m. – Keynote address by Assemblywoman Anna Caballero
</p><p>1:55-3:10 p.m. – Panel 1: Land
</p><p>3:10-4:25 p.m. – Panel 2: Water
</p><p>4:25-4:40 p.m. – Closing remarks by Salinas Mayor Dennis Donahue
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p><strong>  </strong>
</p><p><em> </em>
</p><p>Oct. 10, 2010
</p><p><strong>Francisco Alarcon among poets at CSUMB on Oct. 28</strong>
</p><p>Francisco Alarcon, Odilia Galvan Rodriguez and Abel Salas will be featured at Voces de Justicia-Voices of Justice, a poetry reading to be held at 7 p.m. Oct. 28 in the University Center ballroom at CSU Monterey Bay. The event is free and open to the public. 
</p><p>Alarcon, award-winning Chicano poet and educator born in Los Angeles, has written 11 volumes of poetry. He teaches at the University of California at Davis, where he directs the Spanish for Native Speakers program.
</p><p>Moved by student protests against Arizona's immigration law, he created a Facebook page called Poets Responding to SB 1070. Many of the poems from the page have been republished on La Bloga at labloga.blogspot.com.
</p><p>He told the Tucson Weekly that he started the Facebook page on April 20, when he saw the demonstration in front of the Arizona State Capitol, and learned that nine students had been arrested.
</p><p>"Those Latino students were sitting in front of the Capitol, very Gandhi-like in nonviolence, protesting the xenophobia of SB 1070," he told the paper. "In response, I wrote a poem, 'For the Capitol Nine.' . . . I posted it on my Facebook page, and I kept getting a lot of responses. Now, we have more than 3,500 members."
</p><p>He added that his Facebook page gets responses about the posted poems from all kinds of writers, all over the world. "That means there are a number of poets who
</p><p>have taken the time and are motivated to respond to this discriminatory law."
</p><p>Galvan Rodriguez and Salas, who work with Alarcon to moderate the Facebook page, will also read their work at CSUMB.
</p><p>Galvan Rodriguez is a poet, writer and teacher. She teaches writing workshops, "Empowering People Through Creative Writing."
</p><p>Salas has written for the New York Times and the Los Angeles Times Sunday Magazine and is editor and publisher of Brooklyn &amp; Boyle, an L.A. arts, culture and community paper. He occasionally teaches creative writing in Los Angeles County juvenile halls. His poetry has appeared in a variety of publications.
</p><p>All three poets will answer questions and copies of Alarcon's books will be available for purchase. He'll sign copies before and after the reading.
</p><p>The reading is sponsored by the Department of Human Communication, Student Activities and Leadership Development, and the College of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences.
</p><p>Driving directions and a campus map are available at csumb.edu/map.
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p><strong>  </strong>
</p><p><strong>  </strong>
</p><p><em> </em>
</p><p>When Dia de los Muertos, or Day of the Dead, arrives, family members of departed souls set out water, candles, food and decorated sugar skulls to welcome their lost loved ones. Widely celebrated in Latin America, the day honors the dead as living entities. It celebrates the departed, and helps keep them present in life.
</p><p>This year's Dia de los Muertos celebration at California State University, Monterey Bay, will be held on Nov. 2.
</p><p>The free event will begin at 6 p.m. in the University Center on Sixth Avenue with performances by Aztec dancers and musicians and will include a processional, an outdoor exhibition, live music, pan dulce and hot chocolate. The main altar will be displayed in the University Center ballroom; smaller altars constructed by student and community groups will also be on display.
</p><p>Members of the community are invited to honor the memory of their departed relatives and friends by registering them for the university's Wall of Remembrance. A photo, name and brief memorial message can be submitted at <a href="http://csumb&#45;archives.github.io/vpa/dead/wall.htm">http://csumb&#45;archives.github.io/vpa/dead/wall.htm</a>. Photos, which should be submitted in jpg format no larger than 500kb, will be printed and displayed on our Wall of Remembrance and a candle in each name will be placed on the large community altar.
</p><p>Driving directions and a campus map are available at csumb.edu/map. More information is available at csumb.edu/art.
</p><p><a href="http://vpa.csumb.edu/dead/">Learn more about Day of the Dead.</a>
</p><p><a href="http://cahss.csumb.edu/site/x21204.xml">View a video of Day of the Dead</a> at CSUMB, including a video featuring Dr. Amalia Mesa&#45;Bains.
</p><p>Oct. 5, 2010
</p><p><strong>UROC PLAYS BIG ROLE IN SUCCESS OF UNDERGRADUATE RESEARCH EFFORTS</strong>
</p><p>CSU Monterey Bay students took a first&#45;place award and a third at the Society for the Advancement of Chicanos and Native Americans in Science conference Sept. 30&#45;Oct. 3 in Anaheim.
</p><p>Maren Mitch, a McNair Scholar who works in the campus laboratory of Professor Corey Garza, won first prize in the undergraduate poster competition in marine biology. Approximately 60 posters were entered in that category.
</p><p>Mitch &#40;pictured at left&#41; is a senior Environmental Science, Technology and Policy major.
</p><p>According to Dr. Garza, "The judging was razor thin. The deciding factor was the fact that in addition to having a broader understanding of her project's relevance, it was clear to the judges that Maren was conducting her own research as opposed to working on a small part of a larger project."
</p><p>Mitch looked at how to use GIS models to predict the distribution and abundance of sea stars as a function of intertidal habitat complexity in Monterey Bay.
</p><p>Dr. Garza added that the judges were impressed that CSUMB students are able to integrate geospatial technologies into their research as undergraduates.
</p><p>Anthony Basilio, another marine science student, took third place. He is studying fish bio&#45;mechanics at Moss Landing Marine Labs.
</p><p>Both students are part of the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Center. With training and support from UROC, students work on innovative research projects at CSU Monterey Bay and at regional research institutions. Their work is guided by a research mentor and includes training in proposal writing, presentation and communication skills. It also helps students apply to graduate school. <a href="http://uroc.csumb.edu">Learn more about UROC.</a>
</p><p>SACNAS presents the poster sessions at its annual conference to help students prepare for science careers and the rigors of professional conferences.
</p><p>Oct. 18, 2010
</p><p>Dr. Jack Tchen, keynote speaker at the Salinas Chinatown: Once and Again Symposium on Oct. 15,  told the gathering of 200 people at CSU Monterey Bay, "We, too, are in search of America."
</p><p>He was referring to the subtitle of John Steinbeck's book, <em>Travels with Charley</em>. "In some ways," he said, "the legacy of Steinbeck's writing is what keeps us going."
</p><p>Dr. Tchen, a historian, professor at New York University and co-founder of New York's Museum of Chinese in America, as well as several other museum professionals and artists were invited to the university to talk about the Salinas Chinatown Cultural Center and Museum, which will be housed in the former Republic Café on Soledad Street. They were joined by university faculty members, students and community members.
</p><p>Dr. Tchen (pictured at right) pointed out that the museum will be important nationally, because it will share a history that is often overlooked. Most Asian cultural museums represent the urban experience. The one in Salinas will cover the rural and agricultural history of the Chinese, Japanese and Filipino communities who lived there from the nineteenth century into the 1950s.
</p><p>Karin Higa, curator of the Japanese American National Museum in Los Angeles, advised the group to define "community" broadly as it goes about the work of preparing the museum to open its doors.
</p><p>Wellington Lee, Wally Ahtye, Alfred Baguio and Larry Hirahara – community members with ties to Chinatown ­– talked about their experiences.
</p><p>A plea for community members to share their artifacts and their memories of Chinatown was made by Dr. Lila Staples, who teaches museum studies classes at CSUMB. In collaboration with the National Steinbeck Center, Dr. Staples and her students are assembling the material that will be displayed in the center.
</p><p>The last words came from architect Richard Fe Tom, who drew up the plans for the museum.
</p><p>"You guys are going to get there. It's just a matter of time," he told the group.
</p><p>To read more about the symposium, click <a href="http://csumb.edu/site/x25524.xml">here</a>.
</p>
