---
slug: become-an-entrepreneur-in-54-hours
title: "Become an entrepreneur in 54 hours"
date: January 01 2020
---

<h3>CSUMB to host Startup Weekend Jan. 23-25</h3><p>Ever wonder what it takes to be an entrepreneur? CSU Monterey Bay will be a great place to find out when the university hosts Startup Weekend Monterey Bay Jan. 23&#45;25. Startup Weekend will connect local entrepreneurs, developers, designers and startup enthusiasts with mentors and resources. Throughout the course of this 54&#45;hour event, attendees will share ideas, form teams and launch startups.“Startup Weekend is a great way to get into entrepreneurship and test it out, said Mary Jo Zenk, a member of the organizing team. “This event will foster an innovating environment for entrepreneurs to share, vet and launch their ideas.” Here’s how it works: The weekend opens with open mic pitches on Friday, where attendees are encouraged to bring their best ideas and inspire others to join their team. You don't have to have an idea to attend. Teams form around the top ideas &#40;as deemed by popular vote&#41; and then it’s a 54&#45;hour frenzy of business model creation, coding, designing and market validation.
</p><p>On Sunday evening, teams demonstrate their prototypes in front of local entrepreneurial leaders with another opportunity for critical feedback. Startup veterans and mentors – including faculty members and local entrepreneurs – will be on hand throughout the weekend to provide expertise and give talks on their experiences. About 70 people participated in CSUMB’s Startup Weekend in 2014. With the help of 18 coaches and five judges, 10 companies were formed over the weekend.
</p><p>The event is organized by the College of Business’ <a href="http://innovation.csumb.edu">Institute for Innovation and Economic Development.</a> The institute focuses on the need for more job opportunities in the region and offers programs that work toward developing entrepreneurs and supporting innovative ideas that lead to new business opportunities. Participants must purchase a ticket prior to the event. Tickets are currently on sale as Early Bird discounted prices of $75 and $39 for students. Tickets will increase to $99 and $49 after Jan. 3. Each ticket includes registration, meals for the weekend, snacks and parking. <a href="http://www.up.co/communities/usa/monterey&#45;bay/startup&#45;weekend/4824">Register here</a>. The public is invited to attend the final team presentations and judging, and to meet these new entrepreneurs starting at 4 p.m., Sunday, Jan. 25. Tickets are $25 and include dinner. <a href="http://www.up.co/communities/usa/monterey&#45;bay/startup&#45;weekend/4824">Register here</a>. For more information, contact Program Manager Mary Jo Zenk at &#40;831&#41; 582&#45;3230 or <a href="&#x6d;&#97;&#x69;&#108;t&#x6f;&#58;&#x6d;&#122;&#101;&#x6e;&#107;&#x40;&#99;&#115;&#x75;&#109;&#x62;&#x2e;&#101;&#x64;&#117;">mzenk@csumb.edu</a> or <a href="http://www.up.co/communities/usa/monterey&#45;bay/">online</a>.
</p>
