---
slug: board-of-trustees-ratify-agreement-with-california-faculty-association
title: "Board of Trustees Ratify Agreement with California Faculty Association"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>The California State University Board of Trustees has voted to ratify a multi&#45;year collective bargaining agreement with the California Faculty Association &#40;CFA&#41;. Under the <a href="http://www.calstate.edu/hr/employee&#45;relations/bargaining&#45;updates/documents/2016/cfa&#45;bargaining&#45;update&#45;4&#45;2016.pdf">agreement</a>, all faculty unit employees will receive 10.5 percent in general salary increases over a three&#45;year period &#40;fiscal years 2015&#45;16, 2016&#45;17 and 2017&#45;18&#41;. Faculty unit employees will receive a 5 percent general salary increase on June 30, a 2 percent general salary increase on July 1, and a 3.5 percent general salary increase on July 1, 2017. The agreement also includes a 2.65 percent service salary increase for all eligible faculty unit employees in fiscal year 2017&#45;18. The agreement, which covers about 26,000 instructional faculty, coaches, librarians and counselors on the 23 CSU campuses, will be in effect through June 30, 2018. CFA is the CSU’s largest represented employee group.
</p><p>“I am pleased the Trustees ratified this agreement. Investing in our faculty is an investment in our students’ learning and discovery environment, enabling student achievement and degree completion,” said CSU Chancellor Timothy P. White.
</p><p>In addition to addressing general salary and service salary increases, the agreement doubles the vesting period for retiree health benefits for new faculty hired after July 1, 2017 from 5 to 10 years, and increases the minimum raise associated with tenure track promotions. Under the new agreement, those granted promotions would receive a minimum 9 percent salary increase vs. the current minimum 7.5 percent.
</p><p>The ratification of the CFA agreement also triggers the implementation of new Memorandum of Understanding &#40;MOU&#41; <a href="http://calstate.edu/hr/employee&#45;relations/bargaining&#45;agreements/contracts/csueu/General&#45;Salary&#45;Increase&#45;4&#45;22&#45;2016.pdf">agreements</a> with the California State University Employees Union &#40;CSUEU&#41; and the Academic Professionals of California &#40;APC&#41;. Under the terms of these new MOUs, bargaining unit members for CSUEU and APC will now receive a 3 percent general salary increase on July 1, 2016, and a 2 percent general salary increase on June 30, 2017.
</p><p>The new MOUs were negotiated as a result of the “fairness” clauses in each labor group’s collective bargaining agreement. The CSU continues to negotiate MOUs with two other employee groups, which have current collective bargaining agreements that also contain “fairness” clauses. Negotiations continue with the Union of American Physicians and Dentists &#40;UAPD&#41; and the State Employees Trades Council &#40;SETC&#41;.
</p>
