---
slug: budget-message-from-president-harrison
title: "Budget message from President Harrison"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p><em>CSU Monterey Bay President Dianne Harrison sent this message to the campus community on Tuesday, Jan. 11:</em>
</p><p>In his proposed 2011-2012 state budget, introduced on Monday, Gov. Jerry Brown asks the Legislature to cut $500 million from the CSU’s system-wide budget and an equal amount from the University of California system, as well as $400 million from community colleges. That is $1.4 billion less for higher education, out of a total $12.4 billion in spending cuts recommended by the governor. He proposes no new cuts in K-12 education. The CSU faces an 18 percent loss in state funding, taking the system back to 1999-2000 levels, even though it now serves nearly 70,000 more students. This would undo progress the CSU made this fiscal year in restoring funding lost in the previous two years. Even worse, the $500 million is a “best-case” scenario that hinges on voter approval this spring to extend temporary tax increases. Our staff, faculty, students, parents, and many community friends are understandably anxious to know what this will specifically mean for California State University, Monterey Bay. It is still too early to say, though I pledge to keep all of our stakeholders as informed as possible in the months ahead. I should have a better idea how the proposed budget would affect our campus by late January or early February. We will need everyone’s support and understanding as we make tough decisions. Clearly, we will have to manage our way through a very difficult period that could easily extend beyond next year. Having tightened our belt through several budget cycles, we are already about as lean and efficient as we can get. We have left positions vacant, slashed spending on repairs, maintenance and equipment, restricted travel, and streamlined departments. I and my campus colleagues will do all we can to preserve and protect instruction and support services to our students. Gov. Brown’s budget proposal will not affect enrollment this spring, but the CSU, including Monterey Bay, will likely admit fewer students for Fall 2011. In terms of financial aid, students who are receiving Pell Grants should not experience any change, and we do not anticipate any rollback in state university grants. With regard to other steps necessary to achieve the needed reductions in spending, everything remains on the table. I will be meeting with our Senior Leadership Team to develop alternatives that prepare us for whatever emerges in the final state budget and CSU plan. We will keep the best interests of our students and the entire university in mind as we weigh our options. Sincerely, Dianne F. Harrison, Ph.D. President  
</p>
