---
slug: cal-state-monterey-recruiting-at-local-churches
title: "Cal State Monterey recruiting at local churches"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>The Speakers Bureau provides speakers at no cost to service clubs, schools, senior centers, and other groups in the local area.</p><p>Booking a speaker is easy. Just e-mail your request to the CSUMB Public Information Officer.</p><p>CSUMB faculty and staff members are currently offering talks on the following topics:</p><h4>Research at CSUMB: Why we do it and what it means for the Monterey Bay region</h4><p>Researchers at the university bring in millions of dollars in grants. Those funds create jobs and support the development of new knowledge. We’re eager to discuss economic development and to share ideas for cooperation and collaboration between the university and industry.
</p><p>Presented by a university administrator.
</p><h4>From ‘You’ve got to be kidding!’ to ‘Ah-ha!’ – hope for our oceans through insight and innovation</h4><p>The talk discusses innovative ways to address the unprecedented threats of climate change, sea level rise, ocean acidification, pollution, fishery declines, coastal erosion, algal blooms and storm intensification on the coastal oceans and communities.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Rikk Kvitek
</p><h4>Peeling back the blue: how we map and use 3D visualization to reveal and learn from Earth’s hidden seafloor landscapes</h4><p>Although the global ocean is the driver of weather, a highway for marine commerce, a reservoir of vast marine resources, and our playground, we know more about distant planets than we do about the seafloor. Imagine if the next time you were standing at the ocean's edge that instead of watching crashing waves, you were able to visualize submarine canyons, underwater seamounts and ridges, and even a kelp forest teeming with marine life. The State of California has undertaken a cutting&#45;edge project to make this possible by mapping the seafloor of all the state's waters. Dr. Kvitek will show you the first images created from this effort and share with you how this new information is already being used in a multitude of ways.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Rikk Kvitek
</p><h4>Science with a mission at CSUMB</h4><p>The CSUMB Science Division includes experts from both terrestrial and marine realms. Their common mission is to use sound science to solve environmental problems in the tri&#45;county area. They use cutting&#45;edge technology and student power for the good of the community.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Doug Smith
</p><h4>San Clemente Dam removal</h4><p>San Clemente Dam will be removed from the Carmel River to reduce the risk of dam failure and to foster the historic salmon run. This large&#45;scale project will have long&#45;term impacts on the watershed, and could be a model for other dam removal projects in California.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Doug Smith
</p><h4>Water resources on the Monterey Peninsula</h4><p>People on the coast between Carmel and Seaside have been seeking a sustainable water resource for decades. The search has been fraught with technical, political and legal pitfalls. What are the technical solutions? What are the political/legal constraints? What's the latest plan?
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Doug Smith
</p><h4>The geology of coastal Monterey county: resource opportunities and geological hazards</h4><p>Wherever you stand, there is a stack of rocks below your feet that records the local geological history and governs the kind of urban development that is suited to the region. We will consider the water resources and environmental hazards of our region. Water is scarce, and urban expansion is locally constrained by coastal erosion, landslides and hill slope erosion potential.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Doug Smith
</p><h4>Institute For Applied Marine Ecology (IFAME)</h4><p>The primary goal of the IfAME is to provide science in support of government decision&#45;making ranging from local municipalities to state, federal and international governments. That science includes monitoring the new state marine protected areas along California's coast, exploring the resources of National Marine Sanctuaries from Monterey to New England, studying the impact of commercial bottom trawling on seafloor habitats around the world, and diving from the world's only undersea laboratory in the Florida Keys. The closely linked secondary goal is to involve CSUMB students in the conduct of this research.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. James Lindholm
</p><h4>Math, revealed – Cracking the mysteries of math for youngsters</h4><p>New research examining thousands of students in two dozen California school districts finds that students already doing well in math in the seventh grade are more likely to take advanced math courses in high school and meet college entrance requirements. But for many students who struggle with math in grade seven, there is no clear path to learning and achievement. CSUMB math professor Hongde Hu uses math games, engaging presentations and curriculum he has been refining for years to reach those youngsters.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Hongde Hu
</p><h4>Innovation in higher education</h4><p>Higher education is facing challenges in an era of increased demand, changing demographics and declining state support. American colleges and universities will need to adopt new educational approaches and technologies to serve more students while maintaining quality. CSUMB is addressing this through a variety of ways: a new three&#45;year computer science degree developed in partnership with Hartnell College; creation of an Institute for Innovation and Economic Development; and exploring the potential to use technology for online programs.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Eric Tao
</p><h4>Eyewitness memory</h4><p>Eyewitnesses are notoriously bad in the identification of the perpetrator of a crime. If you witness a crime, can you be sure that your memory for that event is accurate? Not really. Scientific evidence explains that memory changes over time, is malleable and is easy to manipulate via suggestibility and misattribution. Find out why eyewitnesses are so bad at remembering details of the crime and in the identification of the perpetrator.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Jill Yamashita
</p><h4>Creating memories for events that never happened</h4><p>False memories are the remembering of events that never took place. Memory is easily manipulated and can change without our awareness. Memory research shows that it is easy to create false memories &#40;for example, a memory of getting lost in the mall&#41;. One of the issues with false memory is that you cannot tell the difference between a false memory and a real one.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Jill Yamashita
</p><h4>They all look the same: the other-race effect</h4><p>The other&#45;race effect is a deficit in the ability to recognize or identify a face that is of a different race. You might hear a child say, “All of the faces look the same,” which is common response when looking at faces of an unfamiliar or different race. I examine what influences the other&#45;race effect and what helps to minimize this effect.
</p><p>Presented by  Dr. Jill Yamashita
</p><h4>A vision for service: At CSUMB, giving back is a core value</h4><p>CSUMB has won national acclaim for integrating community service with each student’s academic experience, and is changing lives – and our ideas about learning and community – in the process
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Seth Pollack
</p><h4>Mexican entrepreneurs: a new look to immigration</h4><p>Immigrants aren’t always who you think they are.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Juan Gutierrez
</p><h4>Creating customer loyalty</h4><p>John Avella, head of CSUMB’s hospitality program, has 40 years of human resource development and teaching experience in the hospitality industry. He has been vice president of human resources for Marriott Corporation, The Rainbow Room and Windows on the World, and president of Human Resource Concepts. His work focused on management and executive development, Customer service and organizational strategic change. He has studied the application of emotional intelligence to customer service/loyalty, emotional labor and leadership. He has developed a process that teaches people to “connect” to the customer.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. John Avella
</p><h4>The region’s hospitality industry – what’s ahead?</h4><p>The lingering effects of the recession and looming water problems are just two issues facing the local tourism/hospitality industry. What’s on the horizon?
</p><p>Presented by Dr. John Avella
</p><h4>Sustainable hospitality management</h4><p>Presented by Dr. John Avella
</p><h4>Kinesiology gains in popularity</h4><p>Kinesiology – the study of human movement – is the fastest&#45;growing major on campus. As the U.S. population skews older – and fatter – there’s a demand for fitness trainers, physical therapists and researchers who study the science of movement and performance. Dr. Kent Adams, a prolific researcher as well as head of the kinesiology department, shares his findings to help people keep fit across the lifespan.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Kent Adams
</p><h4>Nursing program will meet a need</h4><p>The health care industry is coping with the “silver tsunami” of aging baby boomers, combined with the impact of health care reform. Nurses will play a big role in meeting both challenges, but will need more than a two&#45;year degree to do so. CSUMB has partnered with four community colleges in the region to offer a four&#45;year degree that prepares them to serve as health care navigators, helping patients manage multiple conditions such as hypertension and diabetes outside a hospital setting.
</p><p>Presented by Marianne Hultgren
</p><h4>Unraveling standardized testing and evaluation</h4><p>Mark O’Shea, a professor education at CSUMB, has been studying the standards movement from the perspective of the classroom teacher for years. He has conducted extensive clinical research in standards&#45;based education and has consulted with school districts and state departments of education. He can also talk about the new Common Core standards – he helped state officials develop the science standards – and their implementation in California.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Mark O’Shea
</p><h4>Digging through time</h4><p>Dr. Ruben Mendoza is an archaeologist, writer, and photographer who has explored the length and breadth of Mexico, Central America, Europe, and the U.S. Southwest documenting both pre&#45;Columbian and Colonial era sites and collections. He has directed major archaeological investigations and conservation projects at missions San Juan Bautista, Carmel, and Nuestra Señora de la Soledad, among others. Recent efforts at the Royal Presidio of Monterey resulted in the tandem discovery of the earliest Serra era Christian houses of worship in California dated to 1770 and 1771. And he has made astronomically and liturgically significant discoveries of solstice, equinox, and feast day solar illuminations of mission church altars throughout California, the U.S. Southwest, and Mesoamerica.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Ruben Mendoza
</p><h4>Osher Lifelong Learning Institute is bringing seniors back to school</h4><p>Are you sitting on an idea for the next great American novel and don't know how to begin? Would you like to understand contemporary art? Ever wonder where our special brand of weather comes from? Would you like to know the history of Cannery Row? Then the Osher Lifelong Learning Institute &#40;OLLI@CSUMB&#41; is the place for you. These are just some of the topics that have been covered in courses that range from one day to eight weeks during the Fall and Spring semesters each year. For adults age 50 or better and funded in part by the Bernard Osher Foundation, many of our courses are taught by CSUMB professors. There are no test and no grades, just good fun and great fellowship with friends and neighbors in our region. Learn how and why OLLI@CSUMB came into being and how it has evolved to reflect the interests of our adult learners.
</p><p>Presented by Michele Crompton
</p><h4>Summer arts</h4><p>Sword fights, improvisational comedy, animation, painting: Summer school was never this much fun. Several hundred students – high school, college, and adult members of the local community – come to the university in July for the annual CSU Summer Arts program. The longtime CSU program relocated to CSUMB in the summer of 2012 for a five&#45;year run. The program includes a couple of dozen public events, including lectures, readings, concerts and theatrical productions – in other words, the area’s summer arts scene has gotten a lot more interesting.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Ilene Feinman
</p><h4>CSUMB goes green</h4><p>People across campus are working on many fronts to make Cal State Monterey Bay a more sustainable university. We developed a Climate Action Plan that will provide a road map for eliminating greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and Issues surrounding sustainability are addressed in many classes. We've also have a robust alternative transportation program in place. Mike Lerch, CSUMB's Manager of Energy and Utilities, can speak to the many energy efficiency upgrades on campus &#40;that have cut our energy use 20% and reduced our carbon footprint.
</p><p>Presented by Mike Lerch, CSUMB’s associate director of facilities services and operations
</p><h4>Art in the service of science</h4><p>Science illustration is all around us – in books, magazines, posters, on websites, in films and TV, and in museums. Most of us don’t notice the extraordinary technical skill, the precision and carefully observed detail, or the beauty of these illustrations because we’re busy absorbing information from them. CSUMB is home to a nationally renowned science illustration program; graduates’ work is in the Smithsonian Institution, the Los Angeles Museum of Natural History; in top science magazines such as National Geographic, Scientific American, Nature and Audubon; at the National Zoo, in Washington, D.C., and the Monterey Bay Aquarium.
</p><p>Presented by Jenny Keller
</p><h4>Athletics at CSUMB</h4><p>CSUMB is dedicated to building champions, one victory at a time &#45;&#45; in our community, in the classroom and in competition. The university fields 12 teams competing at the NCAA Division II level. It has earned a national title in men’s golf, and a number of California Collegiate Athletic Association titles.
</p><p>Presented by Kirby Garry, athletic director
</p><h4>Master of social work program meets local demand</h4><p>CSUMB now offers a Master of Social Work program, created in collaboration with community partners to address a shortage of social workers with graduate degrees in the region.
</p><p>Presented by Lisa Stewar
</p><h4>Family dynamics</h4><p>Dr. Rob Weisskirch, a professor of human development, can talk about a number of topics including:
</p><h4>Communicating online</h4><p>How do you present your business or yourself online? Liz MacDonald addresses how to develop a content strategy that works across websites, social media platforms and emerging technologies. The end result is clear, organized information that helps you reach your audiences, and helps your users make the most of the services you provide.
</p><p>Presented by Liz MacDonald, web user experience specialist
</p><h4>Developing business models for new ventures</h4><p>The focus of creating new businesses has changed from writing a business plan to creating a business model. This talk tells what it takes to develop a killer business model &#45; and how to do it.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Brad Barbeau
</p><h4>Funding for startups – the ABC's</h4><p>New opportunities for raising funding are emerging in online crowdfunding. When should a startup use angels, banks, and crowdfunding? This talk covers the latest developments in venture funding and where they fit into the founder's toolkit for fundraising.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Brad Barbeau
</p><h4>The current state of the economy</h4><p>A discussion of current economic data and its meaning for business.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Brad Barbeau
</p><p>In case of local emergency, up-to-date information will be available to members of the CSUMB community by calling the public information phone line, 582-5044.

</p><p>For information on what to do in case of emergency, visit the <a href="https://csumb.edu/police/emergency&#45;management">Emergency Management</a> website.
</p><h2><a href='http://www.facebook.com/CSUMB'>Facebook</a></h2><p>"Like" us to keep up with campus news and events, ask questions, make comments, see photos and videos, and interact with CSUMB students, alumni, staff and faculty.</p><h2><a href='https://twitter.com/#!/csumb'>Twitter</a></h2><p>Follow us on Twitter to keep up with the campus buzz, 140 characters at a time. We post news and events, Q&amp;As, pics, links, community RTs and other fun stuff.</p><h2><a href='http://instagram.com/csumb'>Instagram</a></h2><p>Follow along and see what is happening on campus. Follow us on Instagram just search CSUMB.</p><h2><a href='https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCgds89PGe1OLf_n10bCyLrQ'>Youtube</a></h2><p>You'll find student interviews and testimonials and videos featuring our academic programs, campus life, events and more. If you like what you see, subscribe!</p><h2><a href='http://www.linkedin.com/company/csu-monterey-bay'>LinkedIn</a></h2><p>Check out our company profile to network with Otters. Join the <a href="http://www.linkedin.com/groups?gid=2258229&amp;trk=hb_side_g">group</a> to find job postings, career advice and other opportunities.</p><h2><a href='http://www.flickr.com/csumb'>Flickr</a></h2><p>Hundreds of photos of campus buildings, student life, special events and more. Need an image? Many of our pics are licensed through Creative Commons for public use, and if not, just ask us. Plus, share your CSUMB-related images in our group.</p><h2><a href='https://plus.google.com/b/116450431918642362289/116450431918642362289/posts'>Google+</a></h2><p>Add California State University, Monterey Bay to your Google+ circles. More news and events, campus pics, and social chatter among students and university folk.</p><p>Cal State Monterey Bay has an active and engaged faculty, staff and student body, and we love interactive ways to connect and share information online. The university encourages its faculty, staff and students to use tools such as social media to advance their work and heighten their experience as members of the campus community.
</p><p>In an effort to give direction when using social media, University Communications has developed the following guidelines. These guidelines are not intended for Internet activities that do not associate or identify a faculty or staff member with CSUMB, do not use CSUMB email addresses, do not discuss CSUMB and are purely about personal matters.
</p><h2>What is social media?</h2><p>We consider social media any technology tool or online space for integrating and sharing user&#45;generated content in order to engage in conversations. These guidelines do not attempt to name every current and emerging platform, but some examples are Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, YouTube and Instagram.
</p><h3>If you post/manage a social media account on behalf of Cal State Monterey Bay:</h3><p><strong>Be connected.</strong> If you have been authorized by your supervisor to create a CSUMB social media site or a video for posting in locations such as YouTube, please contact University Communications for an approved logo and other images and to ensure coordination with other CSUMB sites and content. Social media channels are not considered official unless they are developed or authorized by University Communications, which maintains and publicizes a list of all official university social media channels.
</p><p>As the administrator of a CSUMB social media channel, you accept the responsibility for maintaining current and accurate content and monitoring and moderating posts to that channel, including deleting comments and posts that do not meet the criteria set forth in these guidelines.
</p><p><strong>Be respectful.</strong> As a CSUMB employee or representative, you should be mindful of the university’s public mission as a forum for thoughtful discussion of opposing ideas. Some online communities can be volatile, tempting users to behave in ways they otherwise wouldn’t. Your reputation, and CSUMB's, are best served when you remain above the fray.
</p><p><strong>Be responsive.</strong> If a question or comment is directed toward you via your social media site or page, you should do your best to reply in a timely and appropriate fashion. If the comment is a complaint or critique, follow these tips to resolve the situation: <a href="http://www.socialmediaexaminer.com/7&#45;tips&#45;for&#45;dealing&#45;with&#45;upset&#45;facebook&#45;fans/">http://www.socialmediaexaminer.com/7&#45;tips&#45;for&#45;dealing&#45;with&#45;upset&#45;faceboo...</a>
</p><p><strong>Be transparent.</strong> If you participate in or maintain a social media site on behalf of the university, clearly state your role and goals. Discuss with your supervisor when you are empowered to respond directly to users and when you may need approval.
</p><p><strong>Be thoughtful.</strong> Before you jump into a discussion thread or respond to a posting, think about the implications. Will your response stimulate positive discussion, provide new information or insight, or inflame? If you have any questions about whether it’s appropriate to enter into a social media discussion or write about certain kinds of material in your role as a CSUMB employee, ask your supervisor before you post or contact University Communications.
</p><p><strong>Know the rules.</strong> Comply with FERPA, the CSUMB honor code and policies related to Conflict of Interest, Privacy, Security, Safety, Intellectual Property, Computing and Technology Resources, and Human Resources. Become familiar with the terms of service and policies of sites and networks in which you participate. Pay attention to updates. If the legal language is hard to follow, follow a respected blogger or two who discuss service changes in their posts.
</p><p>You are responsible for gaining the expressed consent of all involved parties for the right to distribution or publication of recordings, photos, images, video, text, slideshow presentations, artwork and advertisements whether those rights are purchased or obtained without compensation.
</p><p><strong>Keep your personal views separate</strong>. Uphold the university’s mission and values in your activities. Don’t include political or personal comments. This includes changes to your photo or avatar in relation to political or social issues. Do not use CSUMB's name to promote or endorse any product, cause, or political party or candidate.
</p><h3>Personal site guidelines</h3><p><strong>Be authentic</strong>. Be honest about your identity. In personal posts, you may identify yourself as a CSUMB faculty or staff member, but please be clear that you are sharing your personal views, not representing CSUMB. This parallels media relations practices at CSUMB.
</p><p>A common practice among individuals who write about the industry in which they work is to include a disclaimer on their site, usually on their “About Me” page. If you discuss higher education on your own social media site, we suggest you include a sentence similar to this: “The views expressed on this &#91;blog, Web site&#93; are mine alone and do not necessarily reflect the views of CSUMB.”
</p><p><strong>Don’t be a mole.</strong> Never pretend to be someone else and post about CSUMB. Tracking tools enable supposedly anonymous posts to be traced back to their authors. There have been several high&#45;profile and embarrassing cases of company executives anonymously posting about their own organizations.
</p><p><strong>Take the high ground.</strong> If you identify your affiliation with CSUMB in your comments, readers will associate you with the university, even with the disclaimer that your views are your own. Remember that you’re most likely to build a high&#45;quality following if you discuss ideas and situations civilly.
</p><p><strong>Be aware of liability.</strong> You are legally liable for what you post on your own site and on the sites of others. Follow the same CSUMB honor code, FERPA, Conflict of Interest Policy, Privacy and general civil behavior guidelines cited above including respecting copyrights and disclosures, and not revealing proprietary financial, intellectual property or similar sensitive or private content. Individual bloggers have been held liable for commentary deemed to be proprietary, copyrighted, defamatory, libelous or obscene &#40;as defined by the courts&#41;.
</p><p><strong>Remember that all content contributed on all platforms becomes immediately searchable and can be immediately shared.</strong> This content leaves the contributing individual faculty/staff/students members’ control forever. Employers are increasingly conducting Web searches on job candidates before extending offers. Be sure that what you post today will not come back to haunt you.
</p><p><strong>Follow a code of ethics.</strong> There are numerous codes of ethics for bloggers and other active participants in social media, all of which will help you participate responsibly in online communities. If you have your own social media site, you may wish to post your own code of ethics or adapt an existing code already on the Web. Monitor comments. Most people who maintain social media sites welcome comments; it builds credibility and community. However, you can set your site so that you can review and approve comments before they appear. This allows you to respond to comments in a timely way. It also allows you to delete spam comments and to block any individuals who repeatedly post offensive or frivolous comments.
</p><p><strong>Share and link back.</strong> Please share content posted on official CSUMB social media channels across your personal networks, and link back from your site to CSUMB.EDU. By virtue of self identifying as part of CSUMB in such a network, faculty/staff/students connect themselves to, and reflect upon, the university.
</p><h4>Learn about the Master&#039;s of Public Policy program at Nov. 7 open house</h4><p>Applications are being accepted for the Master's in Public Policy program at California State University, Monterey Bay.
</p><p>The MPP program is a partnership between the university's Department of Health, Human Services and Public Policy and the Leon and Sylvia Panetta Institute for Public Policy. Application deadline is March 1, 2008 for the class that starts next fall. Classes are small, interactive, academically rigorous and professionally focused.
</p><p>To learn more about the program, the public is invited to an open house on Wednesday, Nov. 7 from 5:30 to 7:30 in the Alumni and Visitors Center on campus. Mr. Panetta will be on hand, schedule permitting, to talk about the importance of the program.
</p><p>Courses are offered in the evenings to encourage working professionals to attend. Among the courses offered are: -Congressional and Presidential Politics and Policy -Separate courses on Budget Policy, Health Policy and Social Policy -Money, Media and Influence in Policymaking Environments -Policy Analysis and Public Action in Diverse Communities -Collaborative Leadership and Ethical Policymaking
</p><p>Students currently enrolled in the program come from the management ranks of local governments, educational institutions and non-profit organizations; the broad range of professional backgrounds creates a dynamic learning environment.
</p><p>For more information about the Master's of Public Policy program, visit the web at <a href="http://csumb.edu/mpp;" title="http://csumb.edu/mpp;">http://csumb.edu/mpp;</a> to receive an application packet, call (831) 582-3565 or e-mail <a href="&#x6d;&#97;&#x69;&#x6c;&#116;&#x6f;&#58;&#109;&#x70;&#112;&#64;&#x63;&#115;&#117;&#x6d;&#98;.&#x65;&#100;&#x75;">mpp@csumb.edu</a>
</p><p>Tony Boles has joined California State University, Monterey Bay as associate vice president of Campus Development and Operations.
</p><p>He will oversee campus master planning and building space management, all campus design and construction services, environmental protection and facilities maintenance.
</p><p>" I see coming to the CSU MB as a great opportunity to be part of the growth and development of a new and exciting campus in one of the most beautiful places in the world," Mr. Boles said.
</p><p>He brings 25 years experience in all phases of architectural design work, planning and construction project development for a wide range of private- and public-sector facilities. He comes from Gafcon Construction and Project Management, where he managed the development of a $1.1 billion, 1,700-acre park project in Irvine.
</p><p>Earlier, he was senior deputy director/county architect for the County of San Diego, where he managed the capital improvement and master planning programs. He also served as associate director and construction administrator at San Diego State University, where he oversaw more than $50 million in campus improvement projects.
</p><p>Mr. Boles served in the U. S. Navy's Civil Engineer Corps, where he directed major construction projects throughout the world. He completed his Navy career as the base closure manager for the Marine Corps air stations in El Toro and Tustin.
</p><p>He holds bachelor's and master's degrees in architecture from Cal Poly Pomona and also earned a master's degree in city and regional planning from San Diego State University. He is a registered architect in California.
</p><p>Mr. Boles joined the university on Oct. 18. He replaces Niraj Dangoria, who left CSUMB earlier this year to become assistant dean, facilities planning and management, at Stanford University.
</p><p>Location, location, location.
</p><p>The real estate agents’ mantra may also explain the next undergraduate major to be added to the curriculum at Cal State Monterey Bay.
</p><p>It is location that attracted Elyssa Farmer, a freshman from Pacifica.
</p><p>“As a 10-year-old, I fell in love with the Monterey Bay Aquarium and wanted to become a marine biologist just like the ones at the aquarium,” she said. When it came time to choose a college, she decided on CSUMB because “it’s located next to one of the richest marine regions in the world. Because of that, I figured it would be sensible to study it here.”
</p><p>As faculty member Bill Head, a professor in the Division of Science and Environmental Policy, points out, “When you think of Monterey Bay, you think of marine science.
</p><p>“We have a more concentrated number of marine science institutions here than anywhere in the country.”
</p><p>Marine science has been part of the curriculum almost since the beginning of the university, offered as a concentration called “marine and coastal ecology” within the Environmental Science, Technology and Policy degree program. Courses have been added over the years, including a scientific diving program that was introduced last spring. It filled up in a day-and-a-half.
</p><h5>A new degree is born</h5><p>As soon as the approval process is completed, that concentration – which has by far the largest enrollment of the five available in the ESTP major – will be renamed “marine science” and elevated to a separate program, leading to a bachelor of science degree.
</p><p>Elevating the popular program to degree status meets student demand for a degree with a more recognizable name and serves to make the program more visible and attractive to prospective students.
</p><p>“Our job is to present students with a suite of opportunities,” said Dr. James Lindholm, the Rote Distinguished Professor of Marine Science and Policy. “It’s the Field of Dreams approach – create it and they will come.”
</p><p>And it meets the needs of employers.
</p><p>“Employer surveys show a demand for graduates who can address real-world, interdisciplinary problems and have good technical skills,” said Dr. Marsha Moroh, dean of the College of Science.
</p><p>An important part of the program is the hands-on experience students get with advanced technologies for collecting, analyzing and communicating scientific data.
</p><h5>Hands-on experience</h5><p>Students get that hands-on experience in the laboratory and through fieldwork, often working alongside professors on real-world research projects. Teaching and mentoring are at the heart of the experience.
</p><p>“We give students training in geographic information systems (GIS), remote sensing and seafloor mapping,” Dr. Lindholm said.
</p><p>A prolific researcher, he involves students – undergraduates as well as graduate students in the Coastal and Watershed Science and Policy program – in much of his work.
</p><p>Since joining the faculty at CSUMB in 2007, Dr. Lindholm has established the Institute for Applied Marine Ecology. The goal of the institute is to understand the interaction of marine ecological systems and human activities.
</p><p>Among the institute’s many projects is one surveying deep-water habitats in the newly created marine protected areas along California’s north central coast ­– from San Mateo County north to Mendocino County, using a remotely operated vehicle. The information gathered will serve as the foundation of a program to evaluate the status of fish, invertebrates and their seafloor habitats inside and outside the new MPAs.
</p><p>Another project involves collecting video and photos that help to explore, describe and catalogue the resources of the Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary.
</p><p>He’s also researching the recovery of seafloor habitats off Morro Bay and the Gulf of Maine following the cessation of trawling.
</p><h5>Ten days in an undersea laboratory</h5><p>Perhaps the project with the highest visibility is Dr. Lindholm’s work with Aquarius, the world’s only underwater laboratory.
</p><p>In 2008, he led a mission that studied the movement and behavior of coral reef fish off Key Largo in the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary. Dr. Lindholm supported the mission from the surface, but three CSUMB graduate students spent 10 days in the lab, 60 feet below the sea surface.
</p><p>He returned in October to lead Aquarius 2010: If Reefs Could Talk, a mission designed to educate the public so they can make informed decisions about how their actions impact the world’s most important resource – the ocean.
</p><p>Dr. Lindholm and a graduate student lived in the laboratory, which he says is similar to the International Space Station in size and functionality. Two students worked from the surface, and two more were “ambassadors” for the program, working with Monterey County schools that showed live broadcasts from the lab.
</p><p>Qualifying for the mission isn't easy. The physical requirements are similar to what potential astronauts face. All participants have to be experienced divers with research and rescue certifications.
</p><p>"This is truly a remarkable opportunity for these students," Dr. Lindholm said. "What they are going to experience is extraordinary."
</p><h5>Students work on seafloor mapping</h5><p>Other opportunities – and jobs – are available to students through the university’s Seafloor Mapping Lab.
</p><p>Supported through grant and contract work, the Seafloor Mapping Lab conducts marine habitat survey work from the Arctic to the Antarctic. The lab has been instrumental in the ongoing California Seafloor Mapping Project, an effort to create the first comprehensive, high-resolution map of California's state waters – from the shoreline out three nautical miles.
</p><p>The project involves industry, resource management agencies and universities. Final products will include a series of maps showing the seafloor and coastal geology in unprecedented detail.
</p><p>“We know more about the surface of Mars than the three-mile strip of state waters along our coast,” Dr. Kvitek said. “If the goal is to protect and sustainably manage our marine resources, we don’t have the tools to do it without that basic map. You can see everything down to the size of a lawn chair, and you can look for changes year after year.”
</p><p>Dr. Kvitek’s work has been featured on the Discovery Channel and in National Geographic magazine, among other publications.
</p><p>These opportunities to do hands-on research appeal to students.
</p><p>“I chose CSUMB because the fieldwork with the marine program is a big part of it, and I like working outside, with people,” said Jazmyn Julius, a freshman from Santa Maria.
</p><p>Katie Wrubel can tell Jazmyn about that.
</p><p>Wrubel, a 2010 graduate of the ESTP program, spent the summer working with the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife. The 10-week program was identified by CSUMB’s Undergraduate Research Opportunities Center and sponsored by Oregon State University.
</p><p>She’s now pursuing a Ph.D. in environmental science at Washington State University in Vancouver.
</p><p>“The people I met are the best part,” Wrubel told OSU. “The marine science world is so small and it seems that everyone knows everyone, so joining that circle has opened so many doors for me.”
</p><p>AT A GLANCE
</p><p>Currently, more than half of the 300 Environmental Science, Technology and Policy majors at Cal State Monterey  Bay and about 30 percent of the 400 biology majors are pursuing marine-related concentrations.
</p><p>No other school in the 23-campus California State University system offers a B.S. in marine science. Pending approval, the degree is scheduled to be offered at CSUMB in the fall of 2012.
</p><p>Marine scientists deal with a variety of issues ­– from climate change, declining fisheries and eroding coastlines to the invention of new technologies to explore the sea.
</p><p>According to NOAA, there’s a huge potential for growth in the field as researchers learn more about the ocean and its interactions with the land and atmosphere, how humans affect the ocean, and the impact of ocean resources on our quality of life.
</p><p>President Dianne Harrison urged faculty and staff of Cal State Monterey Bay to answer a call to service and excellence for the university and its students in her annual State of the University address in August.
</p><p>“… In spite of the still-sluggish economy and the unresolved state budget, I have never been so proud of our entire university or felt more confident of its continued progress,” she said.
</p><p>Dr. Harrison pointed out the positive response the university has received from the organization reviewing its application for re-accreditation. “California State University, Monterey Bay has turned an important corner from its formative years and is maturing as a comprehensive university for the 21st century,” she said.
</p><p>More than 1,100 new students – freshmen and transfers – attended campus orientation sessions during the summer. But Dr. Harrison reminded her audience that more than 3,200 qualified applicants had to be turned away because of a budget-imposed cap on enrollment.
</p><p>The new students, she pointed out, “come with high expectations, and they are counting on us to help them achieve their goals – regardless of the state budget.”
</p><p>Money will continue to be tight for years to come, she said. “A scarcity of public dollars has become the new normal.”
</p><p>But Dr. Harrison quickly moved beyond money to talk about a few of the university's recent accomplishments.
</p><p>The biology, psychology, kinesiology, business, math and computer science majors have clearly resonated with students. And so does the new Master of Social Work program, which started its first class with approximately 40 students.
</p><p>“We will not be stymied by state budgets or be satisfied to simply ride out the storm,” Dr. Harrison said. “Together we will continue to innovate and be leaders in our disciplines and services and in higher education.”
</p><p>The number of CSUMB students from the tri-county area increased in Fall 2010. Residents of Monterey, Santa Cruz and San Benito counties now make up 33 percent of enrollment, compared with 31 percent last year. Northern California and Southern California each supply approximately another third of students.
</p><p>Total enrollment is 4,790 this semester, including 829 freshmen and 490 new transfer students. This year’s incoming class has a grade-point average of 3.25, up slightly from last year.  
</p><p>Marina Mayor Bruce Delgado presented a ceremonial key to the city to President Dianne Harrison as part of Otter Fest 2010, the city’s welcome-back event for students held Aug. 29, the first Sunday of the fall semester.
</p><p>Prior to the event, Delgado told the City Council, Marina “wants them, loves them and needs them,” referring to students and the potential boon they represent to the city. Otter Fest included extended hours at the weekly farmers market, food, cooking and gardening demonstrations, live music from a trio of bands, and a business promotion with “Otter Fest passports” and prizes designed to get students into many of the city’s businesses.  
</p><p>Cal State Monterey Bay is one of the most racially diverse schools in its category, according to U.S. News &amp; World Report in the 2011 edition of America’s Best Colleges.
</p><p>CSUMB is tied with Amherst College at No. 11 on the magazine’s “diversity index” among national liberal arts colleges – schools that award at least half their degrees in the fields of liberal arts. Approximately 265 colleges and universities are in the category. The “diversity index” factors in the total proportion of minority students and the overall mix of groups. The information is drawn from each school’s 2009-10 student body.
</p><p>CSUMB also was a leader in the U.S. News category of least debt owed by students. Members of the class of 2009 who borrowed money had an average debt of $15,254.
</p><p>Washington Monthly magazine rated CSUMB highly, as well.
</p><p>The university ranked second among the nation’s public liberal arts colleges in its contribution to the public good, according to the magazine’s 2010 College Guide.
</p><p>The Washington Monthly rates schools based on: recruitment and graduation of low-income students; cutting-edge scholarship and Ph.D.s; and students who give back to their communities.  
</p><p>For the third straight year, CSUMB has received a grant from the outdoor recreation retailer REI for the university’s Return of the Natives project.
</p><p>The $15,000 grant will support work with school children and local teachers, university students and community volunteers on habitat-restoration projects on Fort Ord public lands, the creeks of Salinas and Monterey Peninsula Regional Park District lands in Locke-Paddon Park and Marina Dunes Preserve.
</p><p>Return of the Natives is dedicated to bringing people closer to nature and nature closer to people through hands-on experience in restoring habitats. The REI grant is one of many received by CSUMB, totaling $18.2 million in 2009-10.  
</p><p>In an effort to maximize the education students receive outside the classroom, CSUMB now offers residents the opportunity to live in “themed” learning communities.
</p><p>Students can choose to live on residence hall floors set aside for those interested in science and math, outdoor adventure, liberal studies or business. While no academic content is tied to the living arrangement, leisure-time activities are scheduled around the topics.
</p><p>Freshmen also have the option of participating in Project Higher Ground, where they live in residence halls with a group of students who take at least two courses together.  
</p><p>Filmmaker Magazine has honored CSUMB alumni Robert Machoian and Rodrigo Ojeda-Beck.
</p><p>The magazine, a quarterly publication and website devoted to independent film, named the pair to its annual list of “25 New Faces.”
</p><p>The list is the magazine's “bet on the individuals who will be shaping the independent film world of the future.”
</p><p>When Machoian (Class of '07) and Ojeda-Beck ('09) met as students in the Teledramatic Arts and Technology Department, they had different styles but found a third when working together.
</p><p>The films they have made together display classic art house film style, according to the magazine. Visuals are the key, along with colorful imagery and solitary characters in simple situations, with editing that tells a story without much dialogue.
</p><p>At CSUMB, their goal was to make as many films as they could over the course of a semester, resulting in 14 shorts. “Ella and the Astronaut” was shown at festivals all over the world, and “Charlie and the Rabbit” premiered at the Sundance Film Festival last January.
</p><p>Machoian has become the first TAT alumnus to get a university teaching job. He has a full-time position this semester at Cal State Sacramento, replacing a faculty member who is on leave. Ojeda-Beck is enrolled in the Master of Fine Arts program at UC Berkeley with a fellowship to help cover the cost.
</p><p>Dance is at center stage for the World Theater’s 10th anniversary season.
</p><p>The Paul Taylor Dance Company returns Nov. 11. Taylor has choreographed a new dance called “Brief Encounters,” in celebration of his 80th birthday. The piece is set to the music of Claude Debussy’s “Children’s Corner.”
</p><p>On Oct. 21, Madrid-based Noche Flamenca made its first visit to campus, presenting the Spanish folk art form of rapid, fluid guitar playing, heart-piercing vocals and impassioned dancing.
</p><p>The fall schedule will close Dec. 11 with a Hawaiian family holiday performance featuring slack key guitarist George Kahumoku. Known as Hawaii’s Renaissance man, Kahumoku is an accomplished musician as well as a sculptor, painter, teacher, farmer and captivating storyteller.
</p><p>All performances start at 7:30 p.m. For ticket information, visit the theater online at <a href="http://worldtheater.csumb.edu/">CSUMB.EDU/worldtheater</a> or call 831-582-4580.  
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p> 
</p><p>After a career in the Army, and a second one spent in the mining industry in Peru, Dick Guthrie of Pebble Beach was looking for ways to satisfy his curiosity about, well, almost everything.
</p><p>He heard about the Osher Lifelong Learning Institute from someone he knew and discovered that for a $149 annual fee, he could participate in a variety of programs for a single price.
</p><p>Guthrie signed up, and is now in his second year.
</p><p>“I have a wide range of interests, and OLLI satisfies them,” he said. “It’s a great opportunity for everyone in the area.” This year, he’s taking writing classes and one in archaeology.
</p><p><strong>TO GET INVOLVED:</strong> An annual OLLI membership fee of $149 covers up to six classes. Become a member by going online at <a href="http://csumb.edu/olli">CSUMB.EDU/olli</a>. The site has course and enrollment information. Membership includes a university parking pass and discounts to the World Theater and athletic events, as well as use of athletic facilities. Students may also choose to pay a per&#45;class fee. To register by mail, call the OLLI office at 831&#45;582&#45;5500
</p><p>Guthrie is one of several hundred people participating in OLLI, which was established at Cal State Monterey Bay four years ago with funding from the Bernard Osher Foundation of San Francisco. The 80&#45;year&#45;old Osher is a champion of lifelong learning who backs up that passion with donations of hundreds of millions of dollars. His generosity has funded 119 OLLI programs around the country.
</p><p>The program is intended for people over 50. Classes focus on personal enrichment and come in a variety of formats: Some are lectures, others are discussions; still others are hands&#45;on. The courses require no tests, research papers or grades.
</p><p>Most classes are held on campus, though a few are held at other community locations. Topics this semester include gospel choir; modern spiritual masters and integral philosophy, both taught by John Provost; weather and hurricanes; a cultural history of jazz; autumn bird migration; and the California elections, taught by former State Assemblyman Fred Keeley.
</p><p>Guthrie and nine others turned out on a Thursday morning in September to resume the OLLI Writers’ Circle. All of them are continuing students. They range from beginning writers to published professionals. They’re working on all kinds of projects and all receive constructive feedback on their work. Guthrie is writing a memoir about his experience as a company commander in Vietnam. And he’s serious about it.
</p><p>“I won’t rest until I’ve told about the soldiers’ bravery and sacrifice under trying conditions,” he said. “The OLLI writing courses have helped me stay focused and productive.”
</p><p>If he can’t secure a traditional publisher, he intends to self&#45;publish the book.
</p><p>Kathy Whilden of Monterey, a retired social worker, has been in the Writers Circle since it formed.
</p><p>“I always thought of myself as a writer – I loved that part of my job. I’m reporting on my life now; I reported on other people’s lives then,” she said.
</p><p>“Writing about my life is a way to give it validation.”
</p><p>Andrea Gilliland, a psychology major and certified pastry chef, works for Sodexo in the Catering Department and the Otter Bay Cafe.
</p><p>During last year’s Otter Orientation, she inquired about a gluten-free meal for her mother. This inquiry, along with her culinary experience, landed her a chef position for Sodexo while she continues as a full-time student. Gilliland has since introduced gluten-free, dairy-free, vegetarian and vegan options for diners.
</p><p>“Working in the Catering Department has provided me with challenges and also the ability to branch out in my creativity,” said the senior from San Luis Obispo. She also created menu items for the Have a Heart for Students Dinner and Auction, the Business Showcase Dinner, and this year’s post-Commencement luncheon.
</p><p>After graduation in spring 2011, she plans to cook her way through school as she completes a Master of Social Work degree.
</p><p>Austin Long, a senior in the Visual and Public Art Department, already has the sensitivity and worldliness of a great photographer. The son of an artist and a military officer, he spent half of his high school career in Bolivia, where he soaked up the culture and dabbled in photography.
</p><p>But what was once a hobby is now his career focus. Last year, Long received recognition for his talents as a photographer, winning the first Roy De Carva/Carrie Mae Weems Photo Prize, a $1,000 scholarship awarded by CSUMB’s VPA program to outstanding student photographers.
</p><p>“I’m more at home in the VPA program,” he said. “The program’s strength is teaching us how to think like artists, how to conceptualize our work, not just produce it.”
</p><p>Long needed a compelling portfolio to receive the award, and he had one.
</p><p>Two summers ago, while on a trip with his grandfather to the Dominican Republic, he documented daily life.
</p><p>Cupping a 1987 Model Nikon N4004 camera in his hand and shooting with Velvia slide film, Long traversed the cities of Jaibon and Santo Domingo. The simple moments of children playing jump rope, elderly men relaxing in the afternoon, and teenagers chatting under a tree caught his eye.
</p><p>Long plans to be a commercial photographer when he graduates this spring while continuing to pursue his art.
</p><p>“Everyone here actually has an art career, on top of teaching,” he said. “It is cool to be able to talk to people who are working artists.”  
</p><p>For the first time since its inception in 1985, CSU Summer Arts will reside at CSU Monterey Bay, bringing an artistic explosion to Monterey County. On July 2, the first of Summer Arts' five-year residency at CSUMB began. – <em>California State University website,</em> July 2, 2012
</p><h3>CSUMB librarian part of group performing in London</h3><p>Cal State Monterey Bay didn’t land an athlete at the Olympics, but the university will be represented in another way.
</p><p>Reference and instruction librarian Sarah Dahlen is a member of the Monterey Peninsula Choral Society. The 113-member group will perform at several venues in London during the Games, one of just six choirs in the world invited to sing during the 17-day run of the Olympics.
</p><p>“The choir typically has rehearsals once a week, but for the weeks leading up to our departure, we’ve had four each week,” Dahlen said. “And I’ve done a lot of work on my own as well, and am usually singing in the car.”
</p><p>The choir is scheduled to perform at Olympic Park, where as many as 30,000 people are expected to be in the audience. The singers will also perform at Canterbury Cathedral, Westminster Abbey and several other venues.
</p><p>“Our repertoire includes about 25 songs and I’ve pretty much got all of them memorized at this point,” she said.
</p><p>The society will present a bon voyage concert July 27 at a church in Carmel; Dahlen will leave for Paris the next morning.
</p><p>“We’re skipping the craziness of the Opening Ceremonies to sing at a couple of venues in Paris: La Madeleine Church and EuroDisney,” Dahlen said.
</p><p>The group, which also includes retired CSUMB staff member Diane Ehlers, will take a ferry to the United Kingdom on Aug. 1, in time to do some sightseeing before their concerts.
</p><p>“I’ve never been to the Olympics before, but I think it’s an amazing event and it will be great to be around the energy of the athletes and spectators in the park, even if we’re not able to attend a competition” Dahlen said.
</p><p>The organizers were not able to secure tickets for the large group, but “they made up for it by getting us tickets to see Wicked in London’s West End.”
</p><p>Most members of the group will return home on Aug. 6, but Dahlen will head to Finland for a couple of weeks. She’ll attend a meeting of the International Federation of Library Associations, where she’s scheduled to present a workshop on using rubrics for information literacy instruction. And then she’s headed to Kuusamo, 37 miles south of the Arctic Circle, for a week of vacation.
</p><p>“I’m hoping to do some hiking there and enjoy the long daylight hours,” she said.
</p><p>Editor's Note: <em>Bon Voyage Concert, 8 p.m., July 27, at All Saints’ Episcopal Church, Dolores Street and Ninth Avenue, Carmel. Information: www.thempcs.org</em>
</p><p><em> </em>
</p><h3>An insider’s look at Seattle’s outsider poet</h3><p>The Teledramatic Arts and Technology Department at CSU Monterey Bay will present a screening of “I Am Secretly an Important Man” at the Osio Theater in Monterey on March 5.
</p><p>The documentary film, directed by Peter Sillen, will be shown at 7 p.m.
</p><p>In the film, Sillen examines the life of subculture hero Steven Jesse Bernstein. Bernstein, a songwriter, poet and performance artist, was a literary rebel and vivid presence in Seattle’s underground scene in the 1970s and ’80s. Cited as the “godfather of grunge,” he opened concerts for Nirvana and Soundgarden and recorded albums of songs and poetry for Sub Pop Records.
</p><p>The film’s title comes from one of his poems, “Come Out Tonight.” It became an inspiration and an anthem for the grunge-rock movement.
</p><p>Using video and audio clips of his subject, along with interviews with the artist’s family, friends and colleagues, and powerful footage of the darker side of Seattle, Sillen shows the poet’s self-examination and what Bernstein called just plain “doing your job.”
</p><p>The director will be on hand to introduce the film and to take questions from the audience after the showing. A New York based documentary filmmaker, Sillen is best known for his low-tech approach and sensitivity to his subjects and their environment. He has screened his films at a wide array of festivals and venues including the Sundance Film Festival, Berlin Film Festival, South By Southwest, Slamdance, the Museum of Modern Art, Brooklyn Academy of Music and San Francisco’s Castro Theater.
</p><p>Mike Plante, an associate programmer of the Sundance Film Festival who has worked with TAT for several years, selected the film.
</p><p>According to TAT department chair Enid Blader, “Mike selected it not only because it fits with the literary tradition of the Monterey Bay area, but also to continue championing films that might otherwise go unseen, and to support a filmmaker who is telling a story in a distinct and stylish way.”
</p><p>Tickets can be purchased at the door at the regular Osio prices: $9 for general admission, $6.25 for seniors, $6.75 for students/military with ID.
</p><p><em>Whether he’s a grunge footnote, a beatnik wannabe, or a beautiful, belated loser, the film allows you to decide.</em> – Seattle Weekly
</p><h3>Campus will participate in systemwide workshop</h3><p>Whether at a field site or in a lab, the chance to conduct research is a game&#45;changer for many CSU Monterey Bay students when it comes to earning a degree.
</p><p>The experiences, they say, can ignite a passion, build and reinforce confidence, keep them on track for graduation and provide a head start on graduate school.
</p><p>At CSUMB, the challenge of pursuing a hypothesis down a rigorous line of research is infused throughout the curriculum. The Undergraduate Research Opportunities Center – UROC – builds on the curriculum to engage students in research beyond the classroom.
</p><p>UROC is a cross&#45;campus center that serves students in multiple disciplines. These experiences help students make the link between their classroom and the wider world and help them to develop critical skills for success in graduate school and professional life.
</p><p>Now, campuses in the CSU are coming together to do some serious thinking about undergraduate research across the 23&#45;campus system. Because of its leadership in this area, CSUMB has been selected to participate in a workshop next October designed to improve and expand the opportunities for students. Eight other campuses will also participate. The emphasis will be on the STEM – science, technology, engineering and math – fields.
</p><p>The workshop will emphasize connecting current undergraduate research activities across campuses, developing databases to track students’ progress, building undergraduate research into faculty workload and identifying a curriculum model that would provide every undergraduate access to research opportunities.
</p><p>UROC began in January 2009. Since then, nearly 200 students have been served; currently, 60 students are engaged in or pursuing research placements.
</p><p>“We know the power of undergraduate research here at CSUMB,” said Dr. Bill Head, UROC director and professor in the Division of Science and Environmental Policy. “We’re proud of the commitment and leadership our campus has shown at providing these opportunities for our students.
</p><p>“We look forward to collaborating with our partner campuses to expand these opportunities throughout the CSU educational experience.”
</p><p>Learn about the work done by <a href="http://uroc.csumb.edu/highlights">UROC students</a>.
</p><p><strong><a href="http://uroc.csumb.edu/highlights">About UROC</a>:</strong> UROC is home to CSU Monterey Bay’s strong and growing undergraduate research&#45;related programs, such as the McNair Scholars Program, the National Science Foundation Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation program &#40;LSAMP&#41;, and the Department of Education’s College Cost Reduction and Access Act grant program. The center is housed in the new Tanimura &amp; Antle Family Memorial Library and funded through federal grants, private contributions, and corporate donations.
</p><p>Image above: Taken from a video highlighting the research project by Xeromino Castaneda
</p><p>As of July 1, the Business and Information Technology (BIT) building was approximately 40 percent complete.
</p><p>Groundbreaking for CSUMB's newest academic building was held on Nov. 12. The $43 million, 58,000-square-foot structure will house the College of Business and the School of Information Technology and Communications Design.
</p><p>Housing the two programs together allows students to integrate technology and business practices, and encourages the spirit of innovation and entrepreneurship crucial for learning.
</p><p>Located on the south side of Divarty Street next to the Tanimura &amp; Antle Family Memorial Library, the technology-rich building will have eight classrooms, 12 labs, offices, conference rooms and student study areas.
</p><p>Check out the progress of construction via <a href="http://media.csumb.edu/bitcam/">webcam</a> View the latest <a href="http://media.csumb.edu/bitcam/latest.php">image</a>
</p><p>Sustainability strategies are incorporated into the design. Spaces are organized to ensure learning environments and staff areas receive natural light; storm water runoff will be contained on site; water conserving plumbing fixtures will be used; and heat-producing direct sunlight kept to a minimum with the exterior screen wall. The building has been designed to LEED Gold standards.
</p><p>The project is expected to be completed for the 2015-16 academic year.
</p><p>Facts about the building:
</p><p>• Location: Divarty Street, next to the Tanimura &amp; Antle Family Memorial Library
</p><p>• Function: Will house the College of Business and the School of Information Technology &amp; Communication Design
</p><p>• Features: The technology-rich building will have two and three levels tied together by an atrium and will include eight classrooms; 12 laboratories; offices for faculty members, departments and the dean of the College of Business; conference rooms; student study areas; and a graduate student lounge.
</p><p>• Sustainable features: Sustainability strategies are incorporated into the design. Spaces are organized to ensure learning environments and staff areas receive natural light; storm water runoff is to be contained on site; water conserving plumbing fixtures will be used; and heat-producing direct sunlight kept to a minimum with the exterior screen wall. The building has been designed to be LEED Gold certified.
</p><p>• Architect: HMC Architects of San Jose (other projects include San Francisco State University library renovation and expansion; UC San Diego School of Management; College of the Desert Nursing Complex)
</p><p>• General contractor: Rudolph and Sletten
</p><p>• Size: 58,000 gross square feet
</p><p>• Start of construction: November 2013
</p><p>• Estimated completion: For the 2015-16 academic year
</p><p>• Cost of construction: $43 million ($30 million for construction and $13 million for indirect costs including architects and engineer fees, consultants, agency reviews, furniture and equipment, etc.)
</p><p>• Funded by: $43 million of state funds  
</p><h3>UCLA’s Cheryl Keyes visits CSUMB </h3><p>Dr. Cheryl Keyes, professor of ethnomusicology in the School of Music at UCLA, will lecture on the development of rap/hip-hop music when she visits CSU Monterey Bay on Dec. 6.
</p><p>The free lecture will be held from 10 to 11:50 a.m. in the Music Hall on Sixth Avenue and Butler Street.
</p><p>Dr. Keyes is the author of “Rap Music and Street Consciousness,” which received a CHOICE award for outstanding academic books when it was published in 2004.
</p><p>This professor speaks the language of the streets; she also speaks on panels and at seminars as a nationally recognized rap/hip-hop scholar whose academic credentials include a Ph.D. from Indiana University.
</p><p>While “rap” defines the music, Dr. Keyes told the Long Beach Press-Telegram, hip-hop embodies a larger “youth art movement,” composed of music, graffiti, attitude and dress. Her work draws on research she has done in West Africa, New York City, Detroit, Los Angeles and London.
</p><p>Rap music, according to Dr. Keyes, is a forum that addresses the political and economic disenfranchisement of black youths and other groups, fosters ethnic pride, and displays cultural values and aesthetics. Blending popular culture with folklore and ethnomusicology, she offers a nuanced portrait of the artists, themes, and various styles reflective of urban life and street consciousness. A filmmaker, she has completed a documentary called “Beyond Central Avenue: Contemporary Female Jazz Instrumentalists of Los Angeles,” funded by UCLA’s Center for Community Partnerships. Her musical creative works have been performed by the Women’s Jazz Orchestra of Los Angeles. As a performer, she played with trumpeter Clark Terry’s All-Girl All-Star Jazz Band, and she has recorded with New Orleans rhythm-blues pianist Eddie Bo, and with jazz clarinetist Alvin Batiste. Her debut CD, Let Me Take You There, won an Image Award from the NAACP in the category of Outstanding World Music Album.” Driving directions and a campus map are available <a href="http://csumb.edu/map">here</a>. While the lecture is free, visitors must buy a parking permit from machines located on the adjacent lot.
</p><p>For more information or to arrange for disability accommodations, contact Nicole Mendoza at 582-3009.
</p><p>Imagine if, over a decade, San Francisco Bay lost enough sediment to fill about 5,000 Olympic swimming pools with sand and gravel, and some mud.
</p><p>That's appears to be what happened.
</p><p>According to research just published by CSU Monterey Bay professor Rikk Kvitek (pictured at right) and U.S. Geological Survey researcher Patrick L. Barnard, an analysis of bathymetric (or sea-bottom) measurements taken in 1997 and again in 2008 indicates that the west-central San Francisco Bay – roughly from the Golden Gate to about a mile east of Angel Island and Alcatraz – lost about 14.1 million cubic meters of sediment. That's the equivalent of about a square mile piled about 17 feet high – or those 5,000 pools.
</p><p>The report appears in the current issue of San Francisco Estuary and Watershed Science. Access it here.
</p><p>The 2008 analysis, they wrote, benefited from advances in Global Positioning Systems (GPS) that virtually eliminated inaccuracies due to changing tides or rocking vessels; and from recent improvements in multi-beam sonar, seafloor sampling and underwater video that more clearly reveal the depth and nature of sediments above bedrock.
</p><p>"The seafloor position can now be mapped with unprecedented detail and precision," the researchers wrote.
</p><p>Their mapping covered about 15.6 square miles, about one-fourth of which was under lease for aggregate mining. The leased areas, they found, lost sediment at more than four times the rate of the non-leased areas. (Overall, based on soundings taken from 1947 to 1979, San Francisco Bay appears to be losing sediment three times faster than it did in the mid- to late-20th century.)
</p><p>Kvitek and Barnard conclude that the recently lost, predominantly coarse, sediment was "material that would otherwise have been available for transport to eroding, open-coast beaches" along the San Francisco shoreline.
</p><p>. . . Cal State Monterey Bay made history on CBS Sports Network with the first-ever national telecast of a CCAA women's basketball game.  – <em>The Salinas Californian</em>, Feb. 17, 2014
</p><p>In celebration of Black History Month, the CSUMB chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, Black Students United and other organizations have kept really busy. – <em>Monterey Herald</em>, Feb. 14, 2014
</p><h3>Entrepreneurs share lessons learned on Feb. 26</h3><p>Four business owners will share their experiences starting and running successful ventures and the lessons they learned along the way at the spring Entrepreneurship Forum set for Feb. 26 at CSU Monterey Bay.
</p><p>The free forum, from 4 to 6 p.m. in the University Center, is sponsored by the Institute for Innovation and Economic Development and CSUMB’s College of Business.
</p><p>Panel members include Paul Temple from Advanced Onion; Shawn Bakker from Bakker Construction; Carlos Lopez from Lopez Tax Services; and Ben Holber from YoDerm, winner of the 2012 Monterey Bay Regional Business Plan Competition. Audience members will have the opportunity to ask questions after the presentations.
</p><p>For more information, contact MaryJo Zenk at 831-582-3230 or e-mail her at <a href="&#x6d;&#97;&#x69;&#108;t&#x6f;&#58;&#x6d;&#122;&#101;&#x6e;&#107;&#x40;&#99;&#115;&#x75;&#109;&#x62;&#x2e;&#101;&#x64;&#117;">mzenk@csumb.edu</a>.
</p><p>The University Center is located on Sixth Avenue at B Street. Driving directions and a campus map can be found <a href="http://csumb.edu/maps">here</a>. Visitors must purchase a parking permit from the machine on the lot.
</p><p> 
</p><p>**<em>About CSU Monterey Bay’s Entrepreneurship Forums****Each semester, the <a href="http://innovation.csumb.edu">Institute for Innovation and Economic Development</a>, in partnership with the <a href="http://csumb.edu/business">College of Business</a>, hosts an Entrepreneurship Forum. Past forums have addressed topics such as how startups quickly nail the product that sells; advice from lenders; and a look at crowdfunding.</em>  
</p><p>Millions of viewers across the country will get the chance to watch CSUMB's women's basketball make its TV debut this weekend. – <em>KION-TV</em>, Feb. 14, 2014
</p><p>CSUMB President Eduardo Ochoa kicked off an annual recruiting event aimed at African American communities. – <em>KSBW-</em>TV, Feb. 15, 2014
</p>
