---
slug: calling-all-innovators-
title: "Calling all innovators!  "
date: January 01 2020
---

<h3>Business plan competition entries open</h3><p>More than $50,000 in cash and services is being offered in the fourth Monterey Bay Regional Business Plan Competition, set for May 3. All start-ups that can show how they will create jobs in the tri-county area are eligible. Contestants must submit a <a href="http://www.MBRCompetition.com">one-page application</a> by March 18. To help with the application process, a free 90-minute introductory workshop will be offered seven times. The workshops are scheduled for: • 6 p.m., Feb. 11, Sam Karas Room in the Monterey Peninsula College library • Noon, Feb.12, Cruzioworks, 877 Cedar St., Santa Cruz • 4 p.m., Feb. 13, Salinas Chamber of Commerce, 119 E. Alisal St. • Noon, Feb. 19, San Benito County Chamber of Commerce, 243 Sixth Street, Suite 100, Hollister • 6 p.m., Feb. 21, Sam Karas Room in the Monterey Peninsula College library • 3 p.m., Feb. 23, McGowan Room 320, Monterey Institute of International Studies • 4 p.m., March 5, Marina Technology Cluster? A $1,000 cash award will be given to the winning student team, $5,000 cash for the winning main street company (a local or regional business) and $50,000 in cash and professional services for the winning venture-play company. The first round of presentations – applicants have five minutes to present their business idea and answer questions from a panel of judges – will be held at CSU Monterey Bay on March 29. Semifinalists will be chosen to move on to the final competition May 3 at the Monterey Institute of International Studies. Finalists will present their ideas and business plans to a panel of investors, successful entrepreneurs, regional CEOs and venture capitalists. <a href="http://www.MBRCompetition.com/">More information is available at Monterey Regional Business Plan Competition.</a>
</p>
