---
slug: campus-wins-another-award-for-being-green
title: "Campus wins another award for being 'green'"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>CSU Monterey Bay has been awarded a 2011 Public-Private Partnership “Green” Award by the Monterey County Business Council. The honor was announced at the annual Monterey Bay Regional Economic Forum on Oct. 28. The university was honored for the solar power generation facility that was completed on campus in 2010. CSUMB partnered with SunEdison, the nation’s largest solar energy service provider, on the project. The 6.4-acre solar panel array – consisting of approximately 3,900 panels – was installed at ground level on a vacant lot on the east side of Seventh Avenue, between Col. Durham Street and Butler Street. In addition to financing and building the system, SunEdison will operate and maintain it over the course of a 20-year contract. The university purchases the power at a pre-agreed price. The system generates almost 2 million kilowatt hours of electricity per year for CSUMB, enough to meet 16 percent of the university's current electricity needs. It reduces carbon dioxide emissions associated with electricity consumption by 713 metric tons per year, equivalent to the amount generated by 92 vehicles. This is the third public-private partnership to earn the university an award from the business council. In 2008, CSUMB and PG&amp;E were honored for the Energy Efficiency Partnership that resulted in energy savings in numerous campus building and in 2009 an award was received for innovative outdoor lighting efficiency improvements.  
</p>
