---
slug: capstone-festival-presents-screen-gems
title: "Capstone Festival presents screen gems"
date: January 01 2020
---

<h3>Cinematic Arts students show their work Dec. 19</h3><p>The World Theater on the campus of CSU Monterey Bay will host student films at this year’s Fall Capstone Festival, scheduled for two public screenings on Thursday, Dec. 19. The matinee screening will begin at 1 p.m.; the program will repeat for the evening show at 6 p.m. Admission and parking are free. The Capstone Festival will feature 11 professional-quality productions spanning a range of genres, including comedic and dramatic live-action movies, as well as animation, documentary and experimental work produced by students of CSUMB’s <a href="http://tat.csumb.edu/">Department of Cinematic Arts and Technology.</a> The program includes director Tia Beem’s <em>Science Time</em>, a puppet-populated educational experience, where learning meets uproarious fun, and Alexandra Davis and Elissa Barton’s *Heartbreak Syndrome *(left), a bittersweet and sassy comedy exploring how we act and react when grieving a lost lover.
</p><p>Kayla Harriel’s <em>Best In Me</em> is a moving music-based dance animation centering on a mother and daughter as they face the pains of separation in adolescence and adulthood, and Miguel Silva and Isabella Ortuño’s <em>El Otro Lado Del Sol</em> is a powerful story about a farmworker family trying to survive in Central California. James Santoyo’s <em>Surviving Salinas</em> documents three young adults who present a positive response to the negative media stereotypes plaguing the city. Andrew Folk’s <em>Golden Rule</em> is an impressionistic tale of a young girl who regrets her actions when she loses her best friend, and <em>Stilvin Has An Interview</em> is Monica Fisher, Daniel Kim and Nolan Farrel’s slapstick slacker comedy in which a young man learns it’s not enough to get the job – you actually have to do it, too! Craig Lowery and Andrew Mathiasen’s <em>About: blank</em> is a surrealistic tale following an obsessive writer who sacrifices all semblance of reality for a better story and Hayley Hawkins’ <em>Subject 1.9</em> reveals a young man in search of his past who suddenly discovers who he is. <em>Hold it Down</em> is Josh R. Applegate’s upbeat montage evoking a warm summer night, set to the music of local Bay Area rock and reggae band Just Chill, and Nicholas Fryou and Thomas Stevens’ Western homage <em>Remington's Revenge</em> is the tale of a young gunslinger, betrayed in love, who sets out on a quest for revenge in the American Southwest during the 1870s. Please note that some films in the program contain mature language or violence. The World Theater is located on Sixth Avenue near A Street, on the campus of CSU Monterey Bay. For more information, contact Professor Karen Davis, Department of Cinematic Arts and Technology at <a href="&#109;&#x61;&#x69;&#108;&#116;&#x6f;&#58;&#107;&#x64;&#97;&#118;&#x69;s&#64;&#x63;&#x73;&#117;&#x6d;&#x62;&#46;&#101;&#x64;&#117;">kdavis@csumb.edu</a> or (831) 582-4396.
</p><p>For disability accommodations, contact Jennifer Benge at <a href="&#x6d;&#x61;&#105;&#108;&#116;&#x6f;&#x3a;&#x6a;&#98;&#101;n&#x67;&#x65;&#64;&#99;&#115;&#x75;&#x6d;&#x62;&#46;&#101;d&#x75;">jbenge@csumb.edu</a>.
</p><p>The event is co-sponsored by the Monterey Bay Film Society. <a href="http://news.csumb.edu/gallery/fall-capstone-festival-presents-screen-gems">See a photo gallery of stills from all 11 films.</a> <a href="http://capstonefestival.csumb.edu/">Complete Capstone Festival schedule, including work by students in all academic departments, is available here</a>.  
</p>
