---
slug: chapman-science-academic-center
title: "Chapman Science Academic Center"
date: January 01 2020
---

<h5>CSUMB's first newly constructed building wins merit award</h5><p>The elemental mixture of wood, glass and masonry that makes up the exterior of the Chapman Science Academic Center has drawn notice from architects since it opened in the fall of 2003. Now, the building has been honored with an award. The Concrete Masonry Association of California and Nevada recently honored the first new building on the CSUMB campus with a Merit Award. A jury of five architects from across the country judged the entries, which included 25 in the education category. The 68,000-square-foot building was chosen because of the integration of sustainable materials and because of the building's functional design. The building is also cited as a successful and important first step toward realizing the master plan for the future design of the campus. In making the award, the judges said, "the selection of building materials, application of color and use of native landscape elements are all cues in setting a new visual identity for the campus . . . Reflecting the nature of the environmental science curriculum, the building embodies a strong commitment to sustainable design and construction practices." Project architect was the firm of Anshen + Allen of San Francisco. Masonry contractor was O'Neal Masonry Partners. The building was named for Patricia and Robert Chapman, Salinas residents and community leaders who donated $2.5 million toward the cost of construction. For more information about the awards, visit the CMACN website at <a href="http://www.cmacn.org/">http://www.cmacn.org</a>.
</p>
