---
slug: classes-camps-conferences--summer-at-csumb
title: "Classes, camps, conferences – summer at CSUMB"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>CSU SUMMER ARTS HIGHLIGHTS ACTIVITIES</p><p>Especially on foggy days, visitors can be excused for thinking that CSU Monterey Bay’s campus is quiet during the summer. But don’t let the outward appearance fool you – there’s really a lot going on.
</p><p><a href="http://blogs.calstate.edu/summerarts/">CSU Summer Arts</a> returns to campus with a lineup of 17 classes and 30 <a href="http://blogs.calstate.edu/summerarts/index.php/events/">public events</a>.
</p><p>Well&#45;known artists, actors, musicians, filmmakers, writers and dancers will conduct intensive two&#45;week workshops during a pair of sessions in July. Hundreds of students have registered for the classes, which start June 29.
</p><p>And, as usual during the summer, conferences, teacher training programs, Upward Bound and other outreach activities for youngsters and high school students, reading camps, sport camps – even <a href="https://csumb.edu/planning/schedule/summer2015/extended?_search=Extended+Education">university classes</a> – are all here.
</p><p>The Imagine College Summer Scholar Institute, a program for local high school students, returns for its seventh year at CSUMB. A weeklong session will be held in June; attendees can choose to take classes in chemistry or kinesiology. An SAT test preparation class will be offered for students entering their senior year.
</p><p>High school students can also attend a summer math academy, where they take algebra classes part of the day and participate in leadership development activities.
</p><p>The Technology Innovation Summer Camp for 14&#45; to 17&#45;year&#45;olds is back. About 70 students, half local and half from Taiwan, will spend 10 days learning to design video games.
</p><p>Teachers will be here during the summer, attending their own "camp." The Pacific Advanced Placement Institute will hold its annual summer program at CSUMB for the fifth year. Several hundred high school teachers will share best practices in teaching advanced placement classes in art history, biology, calculus, Chinese, Japanese, physics, studio art and other courses.
</p><p>The sports&#45;minded set – from youngsters to young adults – will be on campus attending baseball, softball, volleyball, basketball, water polo and soccer <a href="http://otterathletics.com/sports/2007/8/7/camps.aspx">camps</a>.
</p><p>The <a href="https://csumb.edu/readingcenter?_search=Center+for+Reading+Diagnosis">Center for Reading Diagnosis and Instruction</a> will offer a camp of another kind. A weeklong reading camp will be held in July for kindergartners through eighth&#45;graders. And the center is offering summer tutoring sessions for pre&#45;kindergartners through 12th graders throughout June and July.
</p><p>Girls, Inc., an organization that encourages healthy, smart choices in food and life, will be on campus for a week in mid&#45;June. Upward Bound will host 90 high school students for six weeks in June and July. The students will take college&#45;level classes, learn about the college application process, and spend a week visiting other college campuses.
</p><p>The younger set – more than 250 fourth&#45; through sixth&#45;graders – will be on campus during July to participate in the Junior Otter program. The migrant students take language arts classes and work with staff members from El Teatro Campesino.
</p><p>University students also come to campus over the summer. <a href="https://csumb.edu/orientation?_search=new+student+orientation">New student orientation</a> for freshmen and transfer students will bring hundreds of students and their parents to campus June 13 through 22.
</p><p>Also serving university students is the Panetta Institute for Public Policy’s annual weeklong <a href="http://www.panettainstitute.org/programs/study&#45;with&#45;us/student&#45;leadership&#45;training/">leadership seminar</a>. Student body presidents and other elected student leaders from California State University campuses, Dominican University of California, Saint Mary’s College of California and Santa Clara University come to CSUMB to hone their leadership skills and develop strategies for addressing campus, community and national problems.
</p><p>More than 175 international students from Mexico, Vietnam, Colombia, Brazil, Korea, Japan, and China will take part in the <a href="https://csumb.edu/international/about&#45;alcp?_search=American+Language+and+Culture">American Language and Culture Program</a> in June and July, attending  classes in English language and American life.
</p><p>Two new buildings will get finishing touches in preparation for opening in the fall. The Business and Information Technology Building contains classrooms, labs, faculty and department offices for the College of Business and the School of Computing and Design, a student study area and a student lounge. The Promontory, a student housing complex with 570 beds in three buildings, is located just north of the main campus. A pedestrian and bike path from the Promontory to Inter&#45;Garrison Road will be constructed during the summer.
</p><p>By mid&#45;August, it will be time to gear up for the fall semester, which will start Aug. 24. Students will move into the residence halls Aug. 21&#45;23.
</p>
