---
slug: class-notes
title: "Class Notes"
date: January 01 2020
---

<h2>2010</h2><p><strong>ALEXIS HALL</strong> (B.S., Environmental Science, Technology &amp; Policy) is pursuing a Ph.D. at the University of Alaska, Fairbanks. Her research involves the field of marine ecosystem-based management, studying the relationship among flatfish, crabs and trawling in the eastern Bering Sea. Her graduate education is being funded with a National Science Foundation MESAS (Marine Ecosystem Sustainability in the Arctic and Subarctic) Ph.D. fellowship. At the Surfrider Foundation, she volunteers as an environmental educator. Hall lives in Juneau.
</p><p><strong>CHRIS SENTIERI</strong> (Master of Public Policy) is the director of Competitive Clusters for the Monterey County Business Council, a partnership with the County of Monterey designed to strengthen the county’s ability to attract businesses and create jobs. He earned a B.A. in community studies from UC Santa Cruz in 2007. Sentieri volunteers for the Monterey Bay Electric Vehicle Alliance, the Monterey Museum of Arts’ Monterey Contemporaries, the Monterey Bay Climate Action Compact and several other organizations. He and his wife, Katrina Dawn Sentieri, have three children, April, 21, Forest, 19, and Cole, 2. They live in Marina.
</p><p><strong>ADAN ROMERO</strong> (B.S., Biology) is pursuing a Ph.D. in biological engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. A Medtronic Graduate Fellowship and the National Institutes of Health Chemistry-Biology NIH Chemistry-Biology Interface Graduate Training Program are funding his graduate education. He was a McNair Scholar while attending CSUMB. Romero lives in Boston.
</p><p><strong>DIANA HAY</strong> (B.S., Math) has begun a Ph.D. program at Iowa State University of Science and Technology on a full tuition scholarship. She earned a B.S. in physical anthropology from UC Santa Cruz in 2004. Hay lives in Ames, Iowa.
</p><p><strong>KAREN WALTERS</strong> (2010, Master of Public Policy), is a senior health educator and perinatal services coordinator for the Monterey County Health Department. She presents nutrition, health education and psychosocial training in perinatal services to 17 clinic providers in Monterey County. Walters earned a master’s degree in public health from San José State in 2000 and a B.A. in health services from Pepperdine University in 1998. She has two adult children, Kari and Gary. Walters lives in Morgan Hill.
</p><p><strong>MARCUS LAWRENCE</strong> (B.S., Kinesiology) is pursuing a master’s degree in exercise science at Appalachian State University in Boone, N.C. His work as a graduate assistant there involves researching the role of inflammation in sarcopenia; the loss of muscle due to aging. After earning a master’s degree, he plans to pursue a Ph.D. in exercise physiology from the University of Connecticut or the University of Kansas.
</p><h2>2009</h2><p><strong>CARRIE FREDERICK</strong> (M.A., Education) earned an education credential from CSUMB and a B.A. in biology from LaSierra University in Riverside. She writes and publishes short stories about the world of motherhood. She and her husband, Brian Frederick, have two children, John, 3, and Zach, 2. They live in Ben Lomond.
</p><p><strong>RODRIGO OJEDA-BECK</strong> (B.A., Teledramatic Arts and Technology) is a filmmaker who is enrolled in the Master of Fine Arts program at UC Berkeley and been awarded a fellowship to help cover the cost. Filmmaker Magazine recently named him to its annual list of “25 New Faces.” Ojeda-Beck lives in Berkeley.
</p><p><strong>ZEKE BEAN</strong> (B.S., Environmental Science, Technology &amp; Policy) is an environmental projects analyst for the City of Santa Cruz Water Department. He is on the board of the nonprofit Chuck Hagan Conservation Fund and co-founder of Santa Cruz Rivers and Parks (SCRAP). Bean is married to Rosemary (Kenner) Bean (B.S.,’04 Earth Systems Science &amp; Policy). The couple lives in Santa Cruz.
</p><h2>2008</h2><p><strong>JANELL FLEENOR</strong> (B.S., Business Administration) is operations manager for Doug Fleenor Design, Inc., a manufacturer of electronic devices that control stage lighting and effects in the entertainment industry. She’s a member of San Luis Obispo County Golden Retrievers, which benefits local dog shelters. Max Ledworowski (M.S., ’10 Management and Information Technology) is her boyfriend of four years. Fleenor lives in Arroyo Grande.
</p><h2>2007</h2><p><strong>ROBERT MACHOIAN</strong> (B.A., Teledramatic Arts and Technology) is a filmmaker who is also full-time instructor at Sacramento State. Filmmaker Magazine recently named him to its annual list of “25 New Faces.” Machoian lives in Davis.
</p><p><strong>JESSICA BROWN</strong> (M.S., Instructional Science and Technology) is the assistant director of CSUMB’s Undergraduate Research Opportunities Center (UROC). The center works across campus to engage undergraduates in hands-on, real-world research that prepares them for the workforce and graduate school. She earned a B.S. in ecology, behavior and evolution from UC San Diego. Brown is a member of the Council on Undergraduate Research and the National Association of Science Writers. She lives in Santa Cruz.
</p><h2>2006</h2><p><strong>JARED ELIA</strong> (B.S., Earth Systems Science and Policy) is a resource biologist for Environmental Science Associates. Working with the Department of Water Resources and local government agencies, his responsibilities include species and habitat protection, land management, restoration and re-vegetation planning. In August 2010 he married Lacey Villa. The couple lives in Walnut Creek.
</p><h2>2005</h2><p><strong>CHRISTIAN CAZARES</strong> (2005, B.A., Teledramatic Arts and Technology) has been a photojournalist for KGTV, the ABC affiliate station in San Diego, for four years. He writes, reports and videotapes stories for both English and Spanish audiences. Cazares is researching schools to pursue a master’s program in film and broadcasting studies. During his career, he’s won three Emmy awards for investigative reporting and has been nominated for four Emmys this year. Cazares lives in San Diego.
</p><p><strong>NICOLE NEADEAU</strong> (B.S., Telecommunications, Multimedia, and Applied Computing) is a graphic designer for TMD Creative in Salinas but telecommutes from her home in Truckee. She helps second-grade students with reading and math as a volunteer at the Truckee Elementary School. She’s married to Tony Neadeau (B.A., ‘05 Business) who is an assistant golf professional at Martis Camp in Truckee. A member of the Professional Golfers Association, he volunteers to teach swing instruction and game etiquette to the girls golf team at Truckee High School. They have two children, Tyler, 7, and Myles, 3. The family lives in Truckee.
</p><p><strong>ALEX HOFMANN</strong> (B.S., Earth Systems Science and Policy) is an engineering ser- vices specialist at the American Public Power Association. His work involves engineering analysis and support for non-profit municipally owned electric utilities. Hofmann earned a master’s degree in public administration from Columbia University in 2009. He volunteers his time to organizations that focus on feeding the hungry and helping bring energy to people who might not other wise be able to afford it. Hofmann lives in Washington, D.C.
</p><h2>2004</h2><p><strong>WILLIAM BUFFINGTON</strong> (B.S., Telecommunications, Multimedia, and Applied Computing) is a full-time designer of marketing solutions for NetShelter Technology Media. He has attended classes at the Academy of Art in San Francisco. Buffington volunteers with an athletics and sports club that’s sponsoring a competitive weight lifting event called The One Hour Long Cycle, with the proceeds going to charity. He also works as a freelance graphic designer and is starting to design and publish books. Buffington was married in July. He lives in Oakland.
</p><p><strong>KELLEEN (HARTER) HARRIS</strong> (B.S., Earth Systems Science and Policy) is an environmental projects analyst for the City of Santa Cruz Water Department, where she collects fishery data, water quality data in lagoons and ensures that the city’s water rights are maintained. She volunteers for fish rescues with the Carmel River Steelhead Association and is a member of the Salmonid Restoration Federation. Harris is married and lives in Aptos.
</p><h2>2003</h2><p><strong>MONIQUE PRECIADO</strong> (Teacher Credential Program) is a fifth-grade teacher at Alice Stroud Elementary School. She won the Stanislaus County Office of Education Bell Award in 2009 for teaching excellence. Preciado earned a B.A. in 2002 from San Diego State University and is pursuing an M.A. in educational technology from Cal State Stanislaus. She and her husband, Jose Cardenas, have two children, Diego, 6, and Nayeli, 4. They live in Modesto.
</p><p><strong>VERONICA GONZALES</strong> (B.A., Social and Behavioral Sciences) is a social worker III for the Avanza Transition Age Youth Program at the County of Monterey Children’s Behavioral Health Division. She provides intensive case management and rehabilitation services for a caseload of about 15 clients, ages 16 to 25, who have mental disorders. She and her husband, Miguel Parra, have a son, Alex Parra-Gonzales, 1. They live in Watsonville.
</p><h2>2001</h2><p>**KATHY (NITAYANGUL) PUGH **(2001, B.S., Earth Systems Science and Policy) is a land surveyor for Whitson Engineers in Monterey, where she manages the survey department of this private civil engineering firm. Pugh has returned to CSUMB to earn a master’s degree from the Coastal and Watershed Science &amp; Policy program. 
</p><h2>2000</h2><p><strong>KATWYN (KT) DELAROSA</strong> (B.A., Social and Behavioral Sciences) is an attorney with the law offices of Bennett &amp; Sharpe, Inc. She earned her law degree from San Joaquin College of Law. In her work, DeLaRosa represents unions, wrongly disciplined or mistreated employees, and all levels of public sector employees. Her husband, Robert DeLaRosa (B.A.,’01 Human Communication), is owner of Steal One, Inc., a wholesale distribution company, following a nine-year career as a casino marketing executive. With their son, Miles Danger DeLaRosa, 3, the family lives in Clovis.
</p><p>**MELANIE VINCENT **(B.S., Earth Systems Science and Policy) is an associate planner at the Tahoe Regional Planning Agency. The agency regulates development within the watershed of Lake Tahoe. Her job involves determining the types of soil and land coverage surrounding the lake, with the goal of limiting the amount of impervious surfaces to improve the lake’s water quality. Vincent lives in South Lake Tahoe.
</p><h2>1999</h2><p><strong>KELLEE (HUMPHREY) LUSK</strong> (B.A., Liberal Studies) is a first-grade teacher at Edenvale Elementary School, where she also trains a teacher intern from San José State three days a week. She earned an M.A. in education from UC Berkeley in 2005. Lusk volunteers at Paradise Baptist Church and belongs to Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. With her children, Hallee, 9, and LJ, 3, she lives in Hayward.
</p><h2>1998</h2><p><strong>KATIE ANGARANO</strong> (B.A., Liberal Studies) is a second-grade teacher. She earned a teaching credential from CSUMB in 1999 and an M.A. in education in 2005 from San José State. Angarano volunteers for the American Red Cross and Kaiser Hospital Volunteer Services. With her daughter, she lives in the Bay Area.  
</p>
