---
slug: county-naacp-chapter-to-meet-at-csumb
title: "County NAACP chapter to meet at CSUMB"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>For the second straight year, the Monterey County Branch NAACP will commemorate Black History Month by holding a general membership meeting at CSU Monterey Bay.
</p><p>The meeting date – Feb. 28 – is significant since it marks the one-year anniversary of the start of the effort to establish a chapter of the national civil rights organization at CSUMB. That effort came to fruition last September, when, after months of planning, the university chapter held its first official meeting. Andre Lewis, the university’s director of governmental and external relation, and campus chapter president Shiyla Goodie, will open the Feb. 28 meeting with brief remarks, followed by Paula Carter of the university’s admissions office, who will discuss recruitment of African American students. Representatives of CSUMB’s Black Students United (BSU) will review the group’s mission and activities. The highlight of the evening will be the announcement of the winner of the Juanita Jackson Award for Young Leaders of the African American community. The meeting will be held from 7 to 9 p.m. at the Music Hall on Sixth Avenue. <a href="http://csumb.edu/map">Driving directions and a campus map</a>. At a Black History Month celebration in Seaside on Feb. 17, three members of the CSUMB community were honored. The Alpha Kappa Alpha sorority, the Monterey Bay chapter of Links, the Monterey County branch of the NAACP and the Seaside Art Commission sponsored the event. The theme was “Honoring Those Who Fought for Civil Rights.” Links gave Today’s Vision Awards to Goodie, fellow student Kym Shavers and Steven Goings, the university’s service opportunities leader. Goodie, Shavers and Goings were also among those honored by the NAACP and Alpha Kappa Alpha. Goodie, a junior psychology major, aspires to earn a Ph.D. in marriage and family therapy. Shavers, a senior business major, served as president of the BSU for three years and like Goodie, was a leader in the effort to establish an NAACP chapter on campus. Goings, a CSUMB graduate and current AmeriCorps leader at the university's Service Learning Institute, has encouraged hundreds of students to get involved with issues they care about in his role as service opportunities coordinator. He is a co-founder of the LGBTQ club Out and About; a former president of the Monterey Peace and Justice Center; an originator of the university’s annual World AIDS Day program; and, along with faculty member Deb Busman, is the co-adviser of the campus NAACP chapter.
</p><p><em>Read more:</em>
</p><p><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2012/sep/10/naacp-chapter-formed-csumb">NAACP chapter formed at CSUMB</a>  
</p>
