---
slug: csumbs-anna-holder-receives-2017-csu-trustees-award-for-outstanding-achievement
title: "CSUMB’s Anna Holder Receives 2017 CSU Trustees’ Award for Outstanding Achievement"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>SEASIDE, Calif., Sept. 19, 2017 – CSUMB alumna and current graduate student Anna Holder was awarded the 2017 CSU Trustees’ Award for Outstanding Achievement September 19, 2017 at the CSU Office of the Chancellor in Long Beach, Calif. She was honored for her achievements along with 22 other students from around the CSU.</p><p>This award is the CSU's highest recognition of student achievement and provides donor-funded scholarships to students who demonstrate superior academic performance, personal accomplishments, community service and financial need. Students receiving the awards have all demonstrated inspirational resolve along the path to college success and many are the first in their families to attend college.</p><p>Holder’s aspirations of pursuing higher education began at age ten when she opened a savings account for college. Then, during her teenage years, she lost her 25-year-old sister to an intoxicated driver and her grandmother to cancer. By age 16, she felt an extreme loss of purpose and nearly gave up on her dreams.</p><p>Holder persevered through the challenges and graduated magna cum laude from CSUMB in 2012 with a bachelor’s degree in <a href="https://csumb.edu/naturalsciences/environmental-science-technology-policy-bs">environmental science, technology and policy</a>. She is now halfway through CSUMB’s <a href="https://csumb.edu/amws">applied marine and watershed science</a> graduate program. Holder has dedicated her life to encouraging youth to become inspired by science. She is currently a mentor in the STE@M™ Mentoring Program, where she speaks to middle and high school girls who are interested in possible STEM careers.</p><p>Upon completing her master’s degree, Holder plans on pursuing a Ph.D. and a career allowing her to contribute to and inform the management of marine resources.</p><p>The 23 student scholarships range from $6,000 to $12,000, with the total amount awarded this year at $149,000.</p><p>The scholarship program was established in 1984 by the William Randolph Hearst Foundation as an endowed scholarship fund to honor William Randolph Hearst, founder of the Hearst newspaper chain. In 1999, the William Randolph Hearst Foundation partnered with the CSU Board of Trustees to supplement the endowment with contributions from CSU Trustees, CSU Foundation Board of Governors and private donors.</p><p>Holder was specifically named the <a href="https://www2.calstate.edu/impact-of-the-csu/support-the-csu/csu-trustees-awards/our-donors/Pages/csu-foundation-board-chair-ronald-r-barhorst.aspx">Ron and Mitzi Barhorst Scholar</a>.</p><p>Visit the <a href="https://www2.calstate.edu/impact-of-the-csu/support-the-csu/csu-trustees-awards/meet-the-awardees">CSU Trustees' Award for Outstanding Achievement website</a> for bios on all 23 scholars as well as donor information.</p>
