---
slug: csumb-to-open-new-community-based-arts-and-culture-center-at-salinas-city-center
title: "CSUMB to Open New Community-Based Arts and Culture Center at Salinas City Center"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>SEASIDE, Ca., Oct. 23, 2017 – The CSUMB Salinas Center for Arts and Culture, a new community-based arts center, will hold a grand opening Wednesday, November 1, 2017 at CSUMB at Salinas City Center.  The grand opening will be held in concert with a series of events to include El Dia de Los Muertos celebrations which are co-curated by CSUMB's Visual and Public Art Department and Jose Ortiz, Hijos del sol, the National Steinbeck Center and Hartnell College.</p><p>All events are free and open to the public. Events including face painting, art exhibits, book talks and signings, Aztec dancing and live music will begin at 3 p.m. and end at 9 p.m.</p><p>"I'm so excited for the center to be open. Working with our community partners to create the programs and exhibitions has been so exciting and rewarding. The community and University are overflowing with talent, sharpened by community-centered vision,” said Enid Baxter Ryce, interim director of the CSUMB Salinas Center for Arts and Culture.</p><p>“It has been an honor to work with Jose Ortiz and Hijos del Sol and Dio Mendoza, Visual and Public Art as they make Dias de Muertos come to fruition."</p><p>The center intends to engage the Salinas community as well as enhance student experience. Students and local artists will have opportunities to create and curate exhibitions, organize and perform at events and work in collaboration with community partners to create relevant, meaningful and transformative projects.</p><p>The center will continue to host a regular set of programs to include: Family-friendly free arts workshops from 5-8 p.m. on first Fridays of every month facilitated by Hijos del Sol and Alisal Center for the Fine Arts; free Friday lunch-time music; and an assortment of artistic and cultural exhibitions.</p><p>“CSUMB’s facilitation of the center marks a new era in civic arts engagement for our hardworking residents and their families,” said Xago Juarez, artistic director for Baktun 12.</p><p>Hosting open community events is in keeping with CSUMB’s role as a community resource, providing forums for provocative discussions that can impact thought and action on issues important to our community.</p>
