---
slug: csumb-student-receives-hearst
title: "CSUMB Student Receives Hearst"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>Daniel de la Cruz, a senior at California State University, Monterey Bay, has received the prestigious William Randolph Hearst/CSU Trustees' Award for Outstanding Achievement. De la Cruz, who is majoring in telecommunications, multimedia, and applied computing, is in his final semester at CSUMB. He will be honored at a ceremony at the September Board of Trustees meeting in Long Beach. The award provides financial support to students who show superior academic performance and community service in the face of personal hardship and challenges. Each honoree receives $3,000. This year, 12 students from across the 23-campus CSU system were honored. At 12, de la Cruz was orphaned and, without parents to guide him, dropped out of school. At 22, he was diagnosed with the same enzyme-deficiency disorder that claimed his mother's life. Refusing to be discouraged, he enrolled in computer courses, used the Internet to locate a New York geneticist who was working on a treatment for his condition, and undertook an experimental and ultimately successful therapy. His interest in computer technology was reinforced by this experience and his goal is to earn a graduate degree in information technology, which he plans to apply to help others overcome barriers in society. "I was astounded when I got the call that I had won the award," said de la Cruz. "You do what you do without thought of outside recognition. So, I was stunned and humbled and filled with gratitude. Receiving this award has exceeded all of my expectations. Maybe it will help others dream big when they see what I've done." The William Randolph Hearst Foundation established an endowed scholarship fund in 1984 to honor the founder of the Hearst newspaper chain. In 1999, the foundation partnered with the CSU Board of Trustees to create the Hearst/Trustees' Award for Outstanding Achievement. Contributions from CSU Trustees and private donors supplement the endowment.
</p>
