---
slug: csumb-joins-national-initiative-on-economic-inequality
title: "CSUMB joins national initiative on economic inequality"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>The American Association of State Colleges and Universities (AASCU) is spearheading a national effort to engage students in the topic of economic inequality and its impact on democracy. CSU Monterey Bay, which has long been a leader in the area of service learning in higher education, is one of 31 institutions participating in the effort.
</p><p>“AASCU is excited to assemble this group of two- and four-year institutions that together will examine and address the growing economic inequality in this county, a trend that poses a serious threat to our democracy,” said George Mehaffy, AASCU’s vice president of academic leadership and change.
</p><p>According to Dr. Seth Pollack, director of CSUMB’s Service Learning Institute, Cal State Monterey Bay plans to strengthen its 100-plus service learning courses and curriculum so they are more effective in helping students think about and address issues of economic inequality; develop new partnerships with community organizations to enhance student involvement with local economic development initiatives; and work together with Hartnell and Monterey Peninsula colleges to develop a dialogue about issues of economic inequality in our region.
</p><p>As part of that dialogue, the next scheduled speaker in the CSUMB President’s Speaker Series will be Dr. Manuel Pastor, professor of sociology and American studies and ethnicity at the University of Southern California. He will discuss issues surrounding income inequality, immigration and economic growth during a series of campus sessions on Jan. 30 and will give a public address starting at 3:30 p.m. in the World Theater.
</p><p><strong>National network of participating schools</strong> The four-year institutions involved include Keene State College, Buffalo State (SUNY); California State University, Chico; Cleveland State University; Dalton State College (Ga.); Ferris State University (Mich.); Indiana University Northwest; Missouri State University; Northeastern Illinois University; Northern Kentucky University; Richard Stockton College of New Jersey; Salisbury University (Md.); Slippery Rock University (Penn.); St. Cloud State University (Minn.); SUNY Cortland; Texas A&amp;M University-Central Texas; University of Houston Downtown; Weber State University (Utah); Western Carolina University (N.C.); and Wright State University (Ohio).
</p><p>Participating two-year institutions include Mount achusett Community College (Mass.); Allegany College of Maryland; De Anza College (Calif.); Kirkwood Community College (Iowa); Lone Star College, Kingwood (Texas); Manchester Community College (Conn.); Monroe Community College (N.Y.); Moraine Valley Community College (Ill.); Santa Fe College (Fla.); and Tarrant County College, Southeast Campus (Texas).
</p><p><strong>About AASCU</strong> AASCU is a Washington-based higher education association of more than 400 public colleges, universities and systems whose members share a learning- and teaching-centered culture, a historic commitment to underserved student populations and a dedication to research and creativity that advances their regions’ economic progress and cultural development. <em>Photo: Dr. Manuel Pastor</em>
</p><p> 
</p>
