---
slug: csumb-faculty-corey-garza-receives-insight-into-diversity-magazines-2017-inspiring-leaders-in-stem-award-
title: "CSUMB Faculty Corey Garza Receives INSIGHT Into Diversity Magazine’s 2017 Inspiring Leaders in STEM Award "
date: January 01 2020
---

<p><b><i>National Recognition of Leaders From Underrepresented Groups Who Are Making a Difference in the Fields of Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM)</i></b></p><p><b>SEASIDE, Calif., July 6, 2017 –</b><b> </b>CSUMB School of Natural Sciences associate professor Corey Garza has received the 2017 Inspiring Leaders in STEM Award from <i>INSIGHT Into Diversity </i>magazine, the largest and oldest diversity and inclusion publication in higher education. The Inspiring Leaders in STEM Award honors professionals from underrepresented groups who have made a difference in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM). Garza will be featured, along with 40 other recipients, in the September 2017 issue of <i>INSIGHT Into Diversity</i> magazine. </p><p>Inspiring Leaders in STEM Award recipients were nominated by a colleague and selected by <i>INSIGHT Into Diversity</i> based on their efforts to inspire and encourage a new generation of young people to consider careers in STEM through mentoring, teaching, research, and successful programs and initiatives. While many who work in these fields have made significant contributions and engaged in new discoveries and innovations, they are not always recognized for their hard work and dedication.</p><p>“Dr. Garza's commitment and leadership in mentoring students in ocean science, especially students from underserved communities, is truly inspiring,” said Patti Hiramoto, Associate Vice President of CSUMB’s <a href="https://csumb.edu/diversity">Office of Inclusive Excellence.</a> “His many research grants provide opportunities for students to get deeply involved in STEM fields. Dr. Garza is truly deserving of this award.”</p><p>A call for nominations for this award was announced in April 2017. </p><p>“We know many of those working in STEM fields, especially those from underrepresented groups, are not always recognized for their success, dedication, and mentorship to others,” says Lenore Pearlstein, owner and publisher of <i>INSIGHT Into Diversity</i> magazine. “We want to honor the many professionals who are inspirations to their colleagues, their community, and to young people who may be interested in a future career in STEM. We are proud to honor these leaders as role models to all.”</p><p>For more information about the 2017 Inspiring Leaders in STEM Award and <i>INSIGHT Into Diversity</i> magazine, <a href="http://www.insightintodiversity.com">visit insightintodiversity.com</a>.&nbsp;</p>
