---
slug: csumb-faculty-spotlight
title: "CSUMB faculty spotlight"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p><strong>RECOGNITION</strong>
</p><p><strong>Dr. Barbara Mossberg</strong>, director of the Integrated Studies program, was an official guest at the inauguration of Poet Laureate W.S. Merwin, held at the Library of Congress. While on sabbatical this year, Dr. Mossberg is Poet in Residence for Pacific Grove. She is working with Pacific Grove High School on “poetry that changed the world” and presented her play honoring Emily Dickinson in December at the Pacific Grove Library.
</p><p><strong>Dr. Forrest Melton</strong>, a research scientist at CSUMB who is working with NASA Ames, was recently honored by the state Department of Water Resources for his ongoing research assistance on climate change. He was recognized for his work on a project funded by the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act to explore the potential for developing water resources applications from NASA remote-sensing data.
</p><p><strong>PROJECTS****Dr. Brad Barbeau</strong>, assistant professor of economics and entrepreneurship in the School of Business, has been commissioned by the Grower Shipper Association of Central California to study the cost to growers of implementing proposed new water quality regulations. The study is intended to identify the direct and indirect impacts of monitoring and reporting requirements.
</p><p><strong>PUBLICATIONS****Dr. Maria Villasenor</strong>, assistant professor in the Division of Humanities and Communication, and two of her students have had an article accepted for publication in the Journal of College Student Retention: Research, Theory and Practice. The article, “Mujerista Mentoring for Chicanas/Latinas in Higher Education,” was co-written with Imelda Munoz and Maria Reyes. Both are McNair Scholars, a nationwide program to increase the number of underrepresented, low-income and first-generation students who earn doctoral degrees.
</p><p><strong>Dr. David Anderson</strong>, professor of history, is editor of “The Columbia History of the Vietnam War,” published last fall by Columbia University Press. Since last November’s election, Dr. Anderson has served as the political analyst for television stations KION and KCBA. He has helped viewers understand the situation in the Middle East, the labor dispute in Wisconsin, and Gov. Jerry Brown’s State of the State address.
</p><p><strong>Dr. Steve Moore</strong>, professor of science and environmental policy, and two co-authors have written “Underwater Robotics: Science, Design and Fabrication,” a textbook for advanced high school classes as well as college and university entry-level courses.
</p><p><strong>Dr. Kent Adams</strong>, chair of the Kinesiology Department, and <strong>Dr. Trish Sevene</strong>, assistant professor of kinesiology, have recently published three articles in the Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research. The articles focused on preventing injuries, warm-up strategies for optimal athletic performance, and assessing muscular power in older adults to help them age successfully. Dr. Adams is collaborating with colleagues in Australia, researching injury and motivation among older athletes.
</p><p><strong>Dr. Babita Gupta</strong>, professor in the School of Business, published papers on organizational culture and technology use in a developing country; global e-commerce; and applications for mobile learning in higher education. She is associate editor for the International Journal of Information and Communication Technology Education and is a member of the U.S. Small Business Administration’s Information Security Task Force.
</p><p><strong>ART</strong> Work by <strong>Johanna Poethig</strong>, professor of painting and public art, was included in an exhibit at the Skyline College Art Gallery in San Bruno on display in February and March. Entitled “Private = Public,” the works looked at the connections – physical, stylistic and conceptual – between public art projects and private studio practice. Poethig’s work reflects an interest in establishing a dialogue between the public and personal.
</p><p><strong>Dr. Umi Vaughan</strong>, assistant professor of Africana Studies, was invited to Peru by the Peruvian North American Cultural Institute during Black History Month. He spoke on the African Diaspora, music and dance. The U.S. embassy took him on tour, where he gave presentations in Afro-Peruvian communities.  
</p>
