---
slug: csumb-celebrates-22nd-commencement
title: "CSUMB Celebrates 22nd Commencement"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>SEASIDE, Calif., May 18, 2018 – With a record number 2,321 candidates for graduation, CSUMB began its 22nd annual commencement celebration Friday, May 18, 2018 with the first of three ceremonies spread out over two days. The College of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences graduated today, May 18th while the College of Business, College of Health Sciences and Human Services, College of Education and College of Science are <a href="/commencement">slated to commence</a> Saturday, May 19th.</p><p><a href="https://csumb.edu/commencement/dr-news/amalia-mesa-bains">Amalia Mesa-Bains</a>, artist, educator and cultural critic who was instrumental in the founding of the Department of Visual and Public Art at CSUMB, gave a keynote address in which she offered words of encouragement to the graduates.</p><p>“I want to remind you that you carry with you a unique ability to see the world through the eyes of humanists, artists, social scientists, linguists and global thinkers,” said Mesa-Bains. “This gives you a capacity that many others lack -- the capacity of transformation. You are the creative thinkers and cultural workers who will see the future with imaginative hope and vision, not as it is but as it could be or should be.”</p><p>Mesa-Bains sent one final message to graduates, encouraging them to embrace the struggles in life with a quote by Cornel West, "It's not hope that gets people engaged in struggle. It's being engaged in struggle that gives people hope."</p><p><a href="csumb.edu/president">CSUMB President Eduardo M. Ochoa</a> also urged the class of 2018 that their quest for knowledge and education does not stop here.</p><p>“To succeed, you must be lifelong learners. In this era of accelerating technological change, many of you will move into careers that do not yet exist. We are confident that your years at CSUMB have prepared you to adapt to new circumstances,” said Ochoa.</p><p>For specific numbers about the ceremony or degrees conferred please visit our <a href="https://csumb.edu/news/commencement-2018-numbers">Commencement 2018 By the Numbers</a> page. Photos from the event are available at the <a href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/csumb/albums/72157667083672217/with/27329657607/">CSUMB Flickr Page.</a></p>
