---
slug: csumb-named-business-of-year
title: "CSUMB named Business of Year"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>March 1, 2010
</p><p>California State University, Monterey Bay was presented with the Business of the Year Award Feb. 27 by the Monterey Peninsula Chamber of Commerce.President Dianne Harrison accepted the award on behalf of the university at a dinner attended by more than 350 Chamber members and guests at the Hyatt Regency Monterey."We're counting on your partnership and support as we continue to grow and develop in the future," Dr. Harrison said. "The truth is, after our first 15 years, we're just getting started!"CSU Monterey Bay was chosen by a panel of business leaders and nonprofit administrators from among the Business Excellence Award winners in 19 categories that were announced last August. At that time, the university was honored in the education category, based on its goals, its service to students, its employee satisfaction, its commitment to sustainability, and its involvement with the Chamber and surrounding communities."Some may ask why a state university is selected as the Monterey Peninsula Chamber of Commerce 2009 Business of the Year. The answer is clear. CSUMB contributes mightily to the well-being of our community," said Mary Adams, president and CEO of United Way of Monterey County and a member of the chamber's board of directors."It's not only a major employer – approximately 700 faculty and staff members – but its students bring added revenue and benefit to businesses on the Monterey Peninsula."Ms. Adams added, "CSUMB exhibits business excellence, operating with a very sound business model. It is succeeding despite a grim economy. All things considered, who could be more qualified than CSUMB to be our Business of the Year."Also honored Saturday were Jim Tunney, recipient of the Ruth Vreeland Award for Public Official of the Year; David Armanasco, Citizen of the Year; Woody Kelley, winner of the Robert C. Littlefield Award; and Laura A. Davis, Volunteer of the Year.
</p><p>Pictured above (left to right): Ruth Thompson, executive director of the Monterey Peninsula Chamber of Commerce, Dr. Harrison and Alan Richmond of the Chamber.
</p><p> 
</p>
