---
slug: csumb-welcomes-new-dean-of-students
title: "CSUMB Welcomes New Dean of Students"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>SEASIDE, Ca., April 20, 2018 – California State University, Monterey Bay (CSUMB) has officially welcomed Leslie Williams to serve as the new associate vice president (AVP) for<a href="https://csumb.edu/studentaffairs"> student affairs</a> and dean of students. Williams, who served as the dean of students at the University of Northern Iowa (UNI) for the past 6 years, will be responsible for oversight of all student life at CSUMB.</p><p>"We are excited to welcome Dr. Leslie Williams, AVP and dean of students to CSUMB. She is a seasoned and respected leader in her field and we look forward to having her as a part of the student affairs team and the entire CSUMB community," said Ronnie Higgs, vice president of student affairs and enrollment services. “Leslie has dedicated her career to student engagement and success ... her vast knowledge and experience in student affairs and institutional collaboration will greatly benefit CSUMB."</p><p>Williams earned her Ed.D. in educational leadership from Johnson and Wales University in Providence, Rhode Island and brings a wealth of experience in student affairs and student life. In addition to her 6 years at UNI Williams also served in student affairs leadership roles at the University of Rhode Island, Georgia State University and the University of Tennessee.</p><p>Williams’ professional experience has prepared her well for her new role here, but it’s her personal life experience that influenced her to join the CSUMB campus.</p><p>Williams is also dedicated to enriching the student experience.</p><p>“I look most forward to my role as an advocate for students. The ability to listen to students, hear their needs, and work with students to incorporate those into university structures to foster students’ success is an exciting opportunity.”</p><p>Williams joins the CSUMB community along with her wife, Bette Nee-Williams, a retired higher education administrator, and their three therapy dogs who all volunteer with hospice patients, and in nursing homes and daycare centers. At CSUMB, Williams will continue her tradition of improving the lives of others.</p>
