---
slug: csumb-in-the-news-2009
title: "CSUMB in the News 2009"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p><strong>Library Buildings 2009: The Constant Library</strong>. . . The new Tanimura and Antle Memorial Library at CSU Monterey Bay addresses the challenges of building in a fragile world while creating a beautiful and functional learning environment.– <em>Library Journal,</em> Dec. 16, 2009
</p><p><strong>CSUMB grads' film to screen at Sundance</strong>A film directed by two recent CSU Monterey Bay graduates has been selected to appear at the 2010 Sundance Film Festival in Utah. The 10-minute film "Charlie and the Rabbit," is a project first stated by Rodrigo Ojeda-Beck and Robert Machoian while they were students at CSUMB's Teledramatic Arts and Technology Department. – <em>KCBA</em>, Dec. 9, 2009
</p><p><strong>Grant helps prepare students for careers</strong>A grant from the U.S. Department of Agriculture will help CSUMB prepare students for careers in natural resources and agriculture. The university will use the grant to enhance its curriculum by adding courses in plant and soil science.– <em>KION</em>, Dec. 7, 2009
</p><p><strong>Local professor wins Fulbright</strong>Gerald Shenk, professor of social and behavioral sciences at CSU Monterey Bay, has received a Fulbright award to work in Manila, Philippines. For six months, Dr. Shenk will lecture on and research civic education and teacher training in the Philippines and the U.S.– <em>Monterey Herald</em>, Dec. 2, 2009
</p><p><strong>CSUMB receives grant to help develop Asian Cultural Center and Museum</strong>For decades, the Republic Café in Chinatown was a central place for Chinese, Japanese and Filipino families to congregate. Now, 21 years after the restaurant closed, federal dollars could help bring the historic structure back to life. CSU Monterey Bay's Service Learning Institute received the $600,000 from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. – <em>The Salinas Californian</em>, Nov. 24, 2009
</p><p><strong>CSUMB professor wins Glenn Award</strong>Lou Denti, a professor of special education at CSU Monterey Bay and director of the university's Center for Reading Diagnosis, has dedicated his life to helping those who struggle to learn. Those efforts have earned him the Annie Glenn National Leadership Award for his work in communication, language and literacy.– <em>Santa Cruz Sentinel,</em> Nov. 22, 2009
</p><p><strong>Commitment to others wins praise</strong>Rachel Osias, a senior at CSU Monterey Bay, will receive the first Philanthropic Young Adult of the Year award in Pebble Beach for her leadership on four major service projects.– <em>The Salinas Californian</em>, Nov. 13, 2009
</p><p><strong>Salinas kids exchange vows with CSUMB</strong>More than 570 sixth-graders from five Salinas schools spent half of their day Thursday visiting CSU Monterey Bay. During the visit, the students promised to study hard and graduate from high school. In return, university officials guaranteed a spot for them when they are ready for college.– <em>The Salinas Californian</em>, Nov. 6, 2009
</p><p><strong>Drawing from the natural world – CSUMB welcomes renowned science illustration program</strong>. . . the science illustration program relocated from the University of California, Santa Cruz Extension to CSU Monterey Bay. The new home ensures easy student access to field sketching sites such as Point Lobos and the Monterey Bay Aquarium.– <em>Carmel Magazine</em>, fall 2009
</p><p><strong>Film Starz</strong>. . . A little bit of movie magic is happening here every day. CSUMB's Teledramatic Arts and Technology Department (TAT) could be considered the Hollywood of Monterey County. Whether editing their latest films, peering through the lens of a broadcast camera or managing the campus radio station, TAT students are making headlines.– <em>Monterey County Magazine</em>, Fall 2009
</p><p><strong>Cell phone parenting</strong>When it comes to communicating with teenagers by cell phone, more is not necessarily better, a CSU Monterey Bay researcher says.– <em>Monterey Herald</em>, Oct. 31, 2009
</p><p><strong>Earning an MBA – CSUMB students take executive business classes online</strong>. . . It's called an Executive MBA program because it's for people with job experience. "We're looking for individuals with at least seven years of work experience,' said Murray Millson, the business faculty member who heads the program.– <em>Santa Cruz Sentinel</em>, Oct. 4, 2009
</p><p><strong>CSUMB wins share of $12.6M federal grant</strong>CSU Monterey Bay will share a $12.6 million federal grant with two other state universities aimed at improving teacher education by borrowing from the model of U.S. medical schools. The grant from the U.S. Dept. of Education is aimed at improving teachers' skills and training, so students in rural areas can get a better education, said MarkO'Shea, professor education of CSUMB.– <em>Monterey Herald</em>, Oct. 13, 2009
</p><p><strong>Study on trawling in San Luis Obispo County is set to begin</strong>CSU Monterey Bay and The Nature Conservancy will embark on a five-year study to examine how the ocean bottom off San Luis Obispo County recovers after years of trawl fishing. . . The goal is to document the changes that occur over the five-year duration of the study as the fish and other animals that live there recover. "Trawling impacts the seafloor," said James Lindholm, a marine science professor at CSU Monterey Bay. "What we don't know is how the seafloor recovers following trawling - or different levels of trawling."– <em>San Luis Obispo Tribune</em>, Sept. 20, 2009
</p><p><strong>CSUMB to offer scientific diving –  course teaches underwater research</strong>There are many important details to keep track of when scuba diving: Keeping a buddy in sight, being aware of the length of time spent underwater, not diving to unsafe depths. Add to that list "transecting and quadrating," and it's easy to see why scientific diving goes to uncharted depths. Beginning next year, CSU Monterey Bay will offer its first scientific diving course.– <em>Monterey Herald</em>, Sept. 10, 2009
</p><p><strong>CSUMB, FORA, Marina reach agreement – Deal concerns the university's land use for future growth</strong>California State University, Monterey Bay may now move forward with its master plan after reaching an agreement with the city of Marina and the Fort Ord Reuse Authority on how to address its impact on the area's infrastructure, officials said.– <em>The Salinas Californian</em>, Sept. 3, 2009
</p><p><strong>Right Time to Teach – CSUMB trains professionals for new career</strong>Bill Schrier was away from high school classes for more than 20 years when he accepted an invitation to speak at Carmel High. The former federal prosecutor gave an advanced-placement class lecture about Marbury v. Madison, the landmark 1803 Supreme Court decision that helped define "checks and balances" of the U.S. federal goverment. . . . He enrolled at Cal State Monterey Bay's teacher internship program, a pathway for professionals who want to start a second career as teachers.– <em>Monterey Herald</em>, Sept. 2, 2009
</p><p><strong>Mixed emotions mark move-in day at CSUMB</strong>The tense smiles and sad eyes could not betray the emotions of parents carrying boxes through the dorm parking lots Friday at Cal State Monterey Bay. Their kids wore very different expressions - excitement, optimism, opportunity - as they checked out their all-new social community and perused a campus that, to them, represented every imaginable aspect of the phrase carpe diem.– <em>Monterey Herald</em>, Aug. 22, 2009<strong>Too cool a school</strong>. . . The little university . . . got an unexpected endorsement from the September/October edition of Mother Jones magazine, which ranked CSUMB among "Ten cool schools that will blow your mind, not your budget."– <em>Monterey Herald,</em> Aug. 22, 2009
</p><p><strong>New year starts for CSUMB – Students and staff remain hopeful despite budget woes</strong>Hundreds of excited college students moved into their dorms, said goodbye to their parents and got ready to start four years of learning. Over 1,800 students moved into 11 California State University, Monterey Bay residence halls Friday.– <em>The Salinas Californian,</em> Aug. 22, 2009
</p><p><strong>Move-In Day Starts College Journey At CSUMB</strong>Although school doesn't officially start until Monday, it was move-in day for hundreds of freshmen attending Cal State-Monterey Bay. More than 900 freshmen were accepted for the fall 2009 semester, and began moving in on Friday.– <em>KSBW</em>, 6 p.m., Aug. 21, 2009**Surprising Study Spots – Great places to go with groups, beyond the standard Starbucks or local library*****Tanimura &amp; Antle Family Memorial Library***The nice surprise here: You don't have to be an otter to enjoy smartly appointed reading areas, the curved ceiling that soars over the light-filled main atrium, or the small-group skyboxes that overlook the beautiful, barrier-free ground floor. . . It earns an A+.– <em>Monterey County Weekly</em>, Aug. 20, 2009
</p><p><strong>Ten cool schools that will blow your mind, not your budget</strong>$39,000 a year. That's the going rate for tuition at hot liberal arts colleges like Williams and Amherst, which came in first and second, respectively, in U.S. News &amp; World Report's best liberal arts college rankings. The 10 schools on our list may not bother to juke their stats to make U.S. News' short lists, but they still have plenty to offer - and for a lot less dough. (CSUMB made the list)– <em>Mother Jones magazine</em>, Aug. 20, 2009
</p><p><strong>Migrant students show off work</strong>Luis Valdez, the child of migrant farmworkers, received his first taste of theater in the first grade, when he found his paper lunch bag soaking in a bucket of water. His teacher had put it there. She used it to make a theater mask. "I thought she'd gone crazy," Valdez told an audience of children, parents and educators in the World Theater of Cal State Monterey Bay on Friday.– <em>Monterey Herald</em>, Aug. 8, 2009
</p><p><strong>Federal $ bring visions of rural broadband</strong>A federal program offering stimulus funds to bring broadband access to underserved areas could be a gold rush for local techies. . . . Hosted by CSU Monterey Bay, the Central Coast Broadband Coalition aims to one day become a standalone nonprofit organization.– <em>Carmel Pine Cone</em>, Aug. 8, 2009
</p><p><strong>Migrant youngsters on campus</strong>They're called Junior Otters now, but it's hoped they'll soon be graduates of Cal-State Monterey Bay. A program that brought migrant students to the university campus for two weeks this summer celebrated a special graduation Friday. Students in grades 2 through 8 took part in arts programs that included drama, dance and video production. The program's director says it's something that could help stop gang influences on children.– <em>KION</em>, 6 p.m., Aug. 7, 2008
</p><p><strong>Student needs guide CSUMB budget planning</strong>A focus on preserving student services and academic quality is guiding plans by California State University, Monterey Bay to close a $9.95 million revenue gap for the 2009-10 fiscal year, President Dianne Harrison said.– <em>Seaside Post</em>, Aug. 5, 2009
</p><p><strong>CSUMB Police . . . Professional, Prepared and Service Oriented</strong>The California State University system is the largest in the world, with 23 campuses serving 440,000 students and 46,000 employees. . . This sizable population requires law enforcement services and all of the CSU campuses have their own police departments.– <em>Seaside Post News Sentinel</em>, July 22, 2009
</p><p><strong>Higher education cuts threaten our future (commentary by Professor Rob Weisskirch)</strong>California's systems of higher education are in trouble - big trouble. We're talking about more than just financial trouble. There are problems that will undermine the well-being of our state.– <em>Monterey Herald</em>, July 19, 2009
</p><p><strong>Colleges Will See a Decline in Megagifts, Experts Predict</strong>The golden age for philanthropy – and the United States – may be over. . . "It's devastating," said Dianne F. Harrison, president of California State University, Monterey Bay. Turning away students when the university has the ability to serve more of them is a painful prospect for Ms. Harrison, who came to the CASE conference to get re-energized about seeking new revenue for her institution. "I know what it means to give a kid an opportunity," she said.– <em>Chronicle of Philanthropy</em>, July 13, 2009
</p><p><strong>Sunrise sheds new light on the missions</strong>On the first winter sunrise of the 21st century, Professor Ruben Mendoza and a handful of others were witnesses to an amazing sight at the old Spanish Mission San Juan Batista, located in the heart of a small town between the Gabilan mountains and Monterey. . . . Mendoza, director of the Institute for Archaeology at Cal State Monterey Bay, set out on a long research project - a "quest," he calls it - that led him to believe the illuminations at San Juan Bautista during the solstice were no accident of nature or some kind of miracle.– <em>San Francisco Chronicle</em>, July 13, 2009
</p><p><strong>CSUMB receives $180,000 to develop Institute for Innovation and Economic Development</strong>. . . Cal State Monterey Bay is in the early planning stages of developing an institute similar to the Lyles Center at Fresno State, devoted to turning creative ideas into reality and creating new jobs in Monterey County and the Central Coast. CSUMB and the Monterey County Business Council recently received a $180,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Commerce's Economic Development Administration to develop the Institute for Innovation and Economic Development.– <em>Monterey County Weekly</em>, July 9, 2009
</p><p><strong>CSUMB trio honored</strong>Three players on the Cal State Monterey Bay women's water polo team were named to the Association of Collegiate Water Polo Coaches All-Academic team. Nicole Smart made the Outstanding academic team (3.71-4.0 GPA), Sarah Ford was named to the Superior team (3.7-3.41) and Chloe McRae was a part of the Excellent team (3.41-3.2).– <em>Monterey Herald</em>, July 6, 2009
</p><p><strong>Learn-by-doing program helps teach the teachers</strong>Hollister resident Alice Flores, who is the regional director for the Northern/West Central California CalState TEACH program, was named administrator of the year for region 10 by the Association of California School Administrators May 11. Flores has been a board member for the Hollister School District for 19 years. The award recognized her work at California State University, Monterey Bay.– <em>Pinnacle News</em> (Hollister), July 2, 2009
</p><p><strong>CSU Monterey Bay establishes undergraduate research center</strong>California State University, Monterey Bay has established an Undergraduate Research Opportunities Center (UROC) housed in the new Tanimura &amp; Antle Family Memorial Library. The center provides students with an engaged and scholarly undergraduate experience that integrates mentorship.– <em>Society for Advancement of Chicanos and Native Americans in Science newsletter</em>, June 25, 2009
</p><p><strong>Business group, CSUMB receive grant</strong>Cal State Monterey Bay and the Monterey County Business Council will receive $180,000 from the U.S. Dept. of Commerce to develop an Institute for Innovation and Economic Development.– <em>Monterey Herald</em>, June 17, 2009
</p><p><strong>Salinas' Stockton earns golf honor</strong>Cal State Monterey Bay senior and Salinas native Ricky Stockton was named to the NCAA Division II PING All-American honorable mention team, voted by the Golf Coaches Association of America. Stockton was the first conference individual champion after winning the California Collegiate Athletic Association tournament in April at Hunter Ranch in Paso Robles.– <em>The Salinas Californian</em>, June 16, 2009
</p><p><strong>Science program moving to CSUMB</strong>If a scientist can study it, there's probably a need to show what it looks like. That's the idea behind an academic program called "science Illustration"...– <em>Monterey Herald,</em> May 24, 2009
</p><p><strong>Behind the Locks</strong>Juan Ramirez just graduated, but already he can mark down "award winning filmmaker" on his resume. Ramirez, freshly minted CSUMB grad with a degree in Teledramatic Arts and Technology, was honored with the Monterey County FIlm Commission's 2009 Film Student Scholarship.– <em>Monterey Herald</em>, May 22, 2009
</p><p><strong>Setting path to higher education</strong>Salinas-area grade-school kids get a view of college lifeIt's never too early to start thinking about college. Cal State Monterey Bay gave a college tour Tuesday to 450 sixth-graders from Salinas elementary schools...– <em>Monterey Herald,</em> May 20,2009
</p><p><strong>Otters claim CCAA Softball Championship</strong>Head Coach Andrea Kenney and her Cal State Monterey Bay Softball team claimed the university's first California Collegiate Athletic Association (CCAA) Team Championship on Saturday in Stockton.– <em>Marina Gazette</em>, May 18, 2009
</p><p><strong>CSUMB graduates remain hopeful despite poor economy</strong>It took nearly 20 years but on Saturday a Salinas resident and the father of two walked across the stage and proudly called himself a college graduate. Martin Vargas-Garcia received a degree in business and visual arts at the age of 40.– <em>The Salinas Californian</em>, May 18, 2009
</p><p><strong>From Iraq vet to CSUMB grad – Business major spent 8 years in Air Force</strong>The three young women who were part of his capstone study group at Cal State Monterey Bay called him "grampa." Richard Brumbaugh acknowledges that, at 32, he is one of the older students on campus. His long march to a degree took two detours through Iraq before coming to its end today.– <em>Monterey Herald</em>, May 16, 2009
</p><p><strong>Student joins fight against AIDS</strong>As the first four-year college graduate in her family, Watsonville native Lisette Arredondo has acheived many of her early goals. Last month, she got to kick off a new national campaign to combat AIDS spearheaded by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention that will take shape over the next five years.– <em>Santa Cruz Sentinel</em>, May 6, 2009
</p><p><strong>CSUMB receives national accreditation for School of Education</strong>The university played host to a team of evaluators from the Nation Council for Accredidation of Teacher Education (NCATE) in December. The evaluators awarded national accreditation immediately.– <em>Monterey Herald</em>, May 5, 2009
</p><p><strong>Positioned to thrive: Higher Ed in the Recession</strong>Since World War I, Fort Ord in Salinas, California, had been an Army training facility and artillery target race. Today, 15 years after the army left, the property's main feature is a growing regional university - Califonrnia State University, Monterey Bay.– <em>Universitybusiness.com</em>, May, 2009
</p><p><strong>Mother inspires CSUMB student – Motivated by mom's illness, Romero aims for graduate school</strong>"I want to do research that will make people's lives better," said Adan Romero, a 22-year-old senior biology major at California State University, Monterey Bay, who hails from Salinas. "I want to help patients." . . . After graduating from North Salinas High School in 2005, Romero chose to attend CSUMB because he received a scholarship and wanted to stay close to his mother.– <em>The Salinas Californian</em>, April 29, 2009
</p><p><strong>CSUMB students honored in math event</strong>Think of it as "NUMB3RS" with an environmental science twist. While the hit TV show uses complicated math to solve crimes, a team of students from California State University, Monterey Bay used it to solve a problem involving aquaculture networks. The team - Erin Frolli, Tatsiana Maskalevich and Hannah Potter - had 96 hours to tackle a question in the Interdisciplinary Contest in Modeling, a complex problem-solving competition.– <em>The Salinas Californian</em>, April 29, 2009
</p><p><strong>CSUMB wood helps out Alisal High shop classes</strong>Wood and metal. Everyday stuff is valuable to teachers, who need materials for their classrooms and have no budget to pay for them. Gary Walter, a businessman who lives in Salinas, saw a perfect marriage. He realized that businesses sometimes discard things they no longer need. And he knew just what to do with the stuff. . . California State University, Monterey Bay has contributed wood furniture that was left over from the Army. The wood is processed, then used in woodshop classes at Alisal High and four other Salinas schools.– <em>The Salinas Californian</em>, April 29, 2009
</p><p><strong>The Season of Ticks: Could Climate Change Worsen Lyme Disease?</strong>In a finding that suggests how global warming could impact infectious disease, scientists from Yale University, in collaboration with other institutions, have determined that climate impacts the severity of Lyme Disease by influencing the feeding patterns of deer ticks that carry and transmit it. . . . he paper appears in the April issue of Applied and Environmental Microbiology. Other authors are . . . Forrest Melton of California State University, Monterey Bay.– <em>Science Daily</em>, April 27, 2009
</p><p><strong>'Bluesical' tribute – CSUMB's Heritage Music Festival celebrates 'Big Mama' Thornton</strong>When most people hear the words "You ain't nothin' but a hound dog," they think of Elvis Presley. But a more soulful version of "Hound Dog" was actually first recorded by legendary blues singer Willie Mae "Big Mama" Thornton. Though she was one of the first prominent female blues singers, she never achieved the wealth or fame she deserved. This Friday and Saturday night, the Heritage Music Festival will pay tribute to "Big Mama" Thornton with "Howlin' Blues and Dirty Dogs" at Cal State Monterey Bay's World Theater.– <em>Monterey Herald</em>, April 23, 2009
</p><p><strong>CSUMB's Stockton wins medalist title at CCAA golf championship</strong>Ricky Stockton, a graduate of Alvarez High School in Salinas, captured the California Collegiate Athletic Association medalist title after carding a 5-under-par 67 in the final round, leading the Cal State Monterey Bay men's golf team to a tie for second place, its highest finish in school history.– <em>The Salinas Californian</em>, April 22, 2009
</p><p><strong>'What is a library now?': CSU Monterey Bay Opens New Library</strong>"You simply don't have to build a traditional library these days," California State University Chancellor Barry Munitz told Newsweek in explaining why the new Cal State University Monterey Bay (CSUMB) would not have a physical library. The year: 1995. Flash forward to December of 2008, when CSUMB celebrated the opening of its new 136,000-square-foot library building. The facility meets the U.S. Green Building Council's LEED silver standard and features "skybox study rooms," an information literacy center, a writing center, auditoriums, and a café. What happened to the vision of the virtual library?– <em>E-Research Library</em>, April 21, 2009
</p><p>**CSUMB teen film fest rolls out today **More than 150 films have been submitted to California State University, Monterey Bay's first Teen Film Festival, which takes place today at 1 p.m. in the World Theater. Doors open at 12:30 p.m. Since last fall, students from 13 to 19 years old have been encouraged to submit their five-minute videos and films. Submissions have come from around the state - from Marin County to San Diego - but most were local, said Enid Baxter Blader, professor of film and video at CSUMB.– <em>Monterey Herald</em>, April 19, 2009
</p><p><strong>Stay Sharp; Study Something</strong>. . . Do you have a secret desire to pen your memoirs or perhaps just become more comfortable with your ability to express yourself in writing? Or maybe you would like to better understand and communicate with your pet? Those options and more are available through classes offered by California State University, Monterey Bay, open to people 55 years and older. An offshoot of the Osher Lifelong Learning Institute (OLLI), created by the Bernard Osher Foundation in San Francisco, the program is in its second year.– <em>Sixtyfive PLUS magazine</em>, April 10, 2009
</p><p>**Art of dance **The art of dance can entertain, illuminate, bridge gaps and heal. . . . Lula Washington Dance Theatre, performing narrative choreographies that illuminate social issues at Cal State Monterey Bay's World Theater tonight at 7:30 p.m. It is known for dynamic movement and bringing the social context of the African-American experience into its work. The choreography has been described as high-energy, dynamic, thought-provoking and edgy.– <em>Monterey Herald</em>, April 9, 2009
</p><p><strong>Film festival on braceros, other laborers coming to CSU Monterey Bay</strong>The eighth annual Reel Work May Day Labor Film Festival has scheduled three events on the campus of California State University, Monterey Bay. This is the second year CSU Monterey Bay has been a festival venue. The festival features films that illuminate the lives of workers and the ways workers and unions around the world organize to make change. Two sneak previews are on the agenda: "The Red Tail," a film about the 2005 Northwest Airlines strike and one mechanic's journey to China to see where his job was outsourced, and "Workers' Republic," about the 2008 occupation of Republic Windows and Doors by its laid-off workers.– <em>The Salinas Californian</em>, April 8, 2009
</p><p><strong>CSUMB seniors dress to impress – Service on campus helps students with job interview wardrobe</strong>When Augie Johnston lands his first job interview after graduation, he won't have to worry about what to wear. On Tuesday morning, the California State University, Monterey Bay senior picked out the business suit he'll don for his employment search. Johnston, a business major graduating in May, found the free duds at the CSUMB "Dress for Success" clothes closet during its grand opening at Suite 211 of the University Corporation Building.– <em>The Salinas Californian</em>, April 8, 2009
</p><p><strong>OPTIMISTIC OTTER - Cal State Monterey Bay athletic director up for D-II challenge</strong>Cal State Monterey Bay Athletic Director Vince Otoupal walked through an endless parking lot framed by abandoned military barracks to the right and an open field to the left. But Otoupal saw so much more. He saw that open field as the new soccer complex that would run up against the high-tech baseball and softball fields just built. He saw accompanying locker rooms for the baseball, softball and men's and women's soccer teams.– <em>Monterey Herald</em>, April 4, 2009
</p><p><strong>Exhibition at CSUMB Focuses on Human Cost of War</strong>A traveling exhibit created to highlight the human cost of war is on display at Cal State Monterey Bay. Hundreds of pairs of boots symbolizing the loss of U.S. soldiers in the war in Iraq have been placed in the main quad this weekend. An exhibit of children's shoes and sandals are also being displayed to symbolize the thousands of civilians lost since the start of the war. "By demonstrating the amount of deaths that have been occurring in this way we're kind of saying there is a better way to do things," said CSUMB student Brizui Orjauela. A vigil was held Saturday night. The exhibit continues Sunday and is put on by the American Friends Service Committee.– <em>KCBA,</em> 10 p.m., April 4, 2009
</p><p><strong>"Ice T Presents 25 to Life" wins award</strong>Pickett Fence Entertainment is proud to announce that its film "Ice T Presents 25 to Life" has been acknowledged as Best Film and winner of the PASS award by the National Council on Crime and Delinquency. The PASS award refers to the organization's mission and role: Prevention for a Safer Society. Filmmakers Deloss Pickett and Michael Dallum made the acclaimed documentary short and subsequent feature documentary. Pickett and Dallum received bachelors degrees from California State University, Monterey Bay. – <em>Business Wire</em>, April 2, 2009
</p><p><strong>Tanimura and Antle Family Memorial Library</strong>The Tanimura and Antle Family Memorial Library was built to meet the U.S. Green Building Council's LEED Silver standard, with high-performance glass that filters out infrared light and reduces unwanted heat, water-saving landscaping and bathroom fixtures, and a high level of recycled content in the library's carpet, tile and building materials.– <em>American Libraries, The Magazine of the American Library Association</em>, April issue
</p><p><strong>Best Professor – Martha Diehl</strong>"I don't think of myself as a professor," says Martha Diehl. "I think of myself as a facilitator. The classes I teach are seminar style, very interactive." She was in the first class of students to graduate from CSUMB's Master's in Public Policy program in the spring of 2006. In the fall, Diehl returned as an instructor, where she teaches an introduction to the program, designed for working professionals who want real-world experience developing public policy . . . and coordinates the field program, a 400-hour internship requirement.– <em>Monterey County Weekly</em>, March 19, 2009
</p><p><strong>Best Institutional Food – Otter Bay Cafe, CSU Monterey Bay</strong>When the Otter Bay Cafe opened on campus in the mid-1990s, it was similar to most institutional dining halls - the veggies were overcooked and, despite our unsurpassable local agricultural credentials, there was not a single local piece of produce on the menu. But today . . . the Otter Bay Cafe has a lunchtime organic salad bar buffet featuring a wide-range of local veggies from Earthbound Farm. . . . The cafe even has a Facebook page (OBR Sodexo).– <em>Monterey County Weekly</em>, March 19, 2009
</p><p><strong>Dia de Los Padres Recruits Migrant Students to CSUMB</strong>Cal State Monterey Bay held its first ever event Saturday designed to recruit students from a group not known for attending college. The "Dia de Los Padres" session at the Monterey County Office of Education had CSUMB counselors give migrant farm worker parents information about sending their kids to higher education. Spanish-speaking staff members looked to build a bridge with parents, saying it's a bigger challenge for them to send their kids to college because of the language barrier. "With 70 percent of (migrant) families speaking Spanish, we want to make sure we're speaking the language of the parents," said CSUMB's David Linnevers.– <em>KION</em>, 6 p.m., March 7, 2009
</p><p><strong>CSUMB GETS 'REEL' – Campus hosts Banff Film Fest, panel on future of films</strong>From "reel" talk on modern alternative filmmaking to the rugged sporting world of mountain culture, Cal State Monterey Bay is hosting a diverse pair of film events this month. The first, "Watching the Future of Film," will be held at 5 p.m. Thursday at the Black Box Cabaret on the CSUMB campus. . . . The second, Banff Mountain Film Festival at CSUMB, is a touring festival featuring several films related to mountain sports.– <em>Monterey Herald</em>, March 3, 2009
</p><p><strong>CSUMB wins President's Honor Roll award for service – School honored for distinguished community engagement</strong>The Corporation for National and Community Service named California State University, Monterey Bay to the President's Higher Education Community Service Honor Roll with Distinction for exemplary service to America's communities. "We are proud and pleased to receive this honor," President Dianne Harrison said. "This is the third time the Corporation has honored CSU Monterey Bay. It affirms that we are a model of service learning."– <em>Marina Gazette</em>, Feb. 16, 2009
</p><p><strong>CSU Push for Black Students Comes to Seaside</strong>The Cal State University system renewed an annual effort Sunday to bring more black students to campus. The initiative is called "Super Sunday," with top university administrators heading out to some 70 black churches statewide. Cal State Monterey Bay president Dr. Dianne Harrison spoke after the morning service at Seaside's Bethel Missionary Baptist Church as part of the recruitment push. CSU officials say the initiative has led to a 15 percent increase in applications by black students and a nearly 9 percent increase in enrollment.– <em>KION</em>, 6 p.m., <em>KCBA</em>, 10 p.m., Feb. 15, 2009
</p><p><strong>CSUMB professor wins photography award</strong>CSU Monterey Bay archaeology professor Ruben Mendoza has won a top prize in the American Anthropological Association's first photo contest. Mendoza's entry, titled "The Last Supper," was awarded third-place honors. The photo depicts a decorated pearlware plate, table setting and food remains - including a shell, faunal remains and peach pit - recovered from archaeological deposits at El Presidio de Santa Barbara.– <em>thearchaeologicalbox.com</em>, Feb. 10, 2009
</p><p><strong>'08 banner year for Monterey County Business Council</strong>. . . The council had a very successful year in 2008. We teamed with Cal State Monterey Bay and submitted a $180,000 federal planning grant for an Institute for Innovation and Economic Development. The institute will be placed on the campus to provide a venue for innovative ideas, support for commercial transfer of research and technology, and will provide a support network and training for businesses.– <em>Monterey Herald</em>, Feb. 10, 2009
</p><p><strong>CSUMB's Andrews makes ESPN team</strong>Dana Andrews has been named to the 2009 ESPN The Magazine Academic All-American District VIII women's basketball team. A four-year starter at Cal State Monterey Bay, the honor makes Andrews eligible for the national team, which will be determined this month.– <em>Monterey Herald</em>, Feb. 9, 2009
</p><p><strong>NASA tracks regional 'green changes'</strong>The changing appearance of Earth's green surface strata on a regional scale recently got a serious examination courtesy of NASA and some high resolution aerial photos from the private sector. These tools of choice allow time-lapse sequences from compiled satellite images and close-up photos, which reveal trends seen in the disappearing green. . . . Scientists from the NASA Ames Research Center in Moffett Field and Cal State Monterey Bay are looking at whether or not changes on our planet are due to human activity or extreme climate. Looking for patterns, they poured over several years of image data collected via NASA satellites. They took the results and "fused" them together with high-resolution commercial images to identify changes in locally vegetative "green" areas. They found that regional land cover disturbances can be identified, such as the recent wildfire-burned areas and extensive forest harvests.– <em>tgdaily.com</em>, Jan. 30, 2009
</p><p><strong>WARMING TO THE SUBJECT – CSUMB hosts climate change teach-in</strong>On Feb. 5, Cal State Monterey Bay invites the community to check out a green dorm room, munch organic food and discuss topics ranging from gluttony to biofuels. For the university's second annual global warming teach-in, the day-long program examines the connections between agriculture, fuel and public policy. "What's going on in the environment is going to affect the food we eat, how we get from place to place, and the world's economy," says organizer Dan Fernandez, a CSUMB physics professor. "Events like this open people's eyes to what's going on and provide a breeding ground for ideas."– <em>Monterey County Weekly</em>, Jan. 29, 2009
</p><p><strong>Champions of the Arts - Arts Council for Monterey County honors local artists **. . . 11 artists and arts advocates will be honored as Champions of the Arts this year . . . Amalia Mesa-Bains, co-director of the Visual and Public Art Department at California State University, Monterey Bay, is this year's Champion Educator. Mesa-Bains is widely recognized for her work in teaching and inspiring the next generation of teaching artists. "Amalia Mesa-Bains is an internationally recognized scholar and leader in arts education," said Paulette Lynch, executive director of the Arts Council. "She is an extraordinary installation artist and cultural critic."– <em>Monterey Herald</em>, Jan. 23, 2009</strong>CSUMB students attending inauguration**California State University, Monterey Bay students Riana Hardin and Nick McGill have been selected to attend a seminar on the new presidential administration being held in Washington, D.C., through Jan. 20. The students were selected from a pool of applicants for the seminar sponsored by the Washington Center.– <em>The Salinas Californian</em>, Jan. 12, 2009
</p>
