---
slug: csumb-taps-sun-for-energy-needs
title: "CSUMB taps sun for energy needs"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>March 19, 2010
</p><p><strong><em>Solar power project set to get under way this summer</em></strong>
</p><p>CSU Monterey Bay is about to get greener.Thanks to a public-private partnership entered into in 2008, the university will take another step toward reducing its carbon footprint when work begins this summer on a solar power generation facility.
</p><p>SunEdison, the nation's largest solar energy service provider, will finance, build, operate and maintain the system over the course of a 20-year contract. The university will purchase the power at a pre-agreed price.
</p><p>The system is expected to generate almost 2 million kilowatt hours of electricity per year for CSUMB, enough to meet 16 percent of the university's current electricity needs. It will reduce carbon dioxide emissions associated with electricity consumption by 713 metric tons per year, equivalent to the amount generated by 92 vehicles.
</p><p>The 6.4-acre solar panel array – consisting of approximately 3,900 panels – will be installed at ground level on a vacant lot on the east side of Seventh Avenue, between Col. Durham Street and Butler Street.
</p><p>"It's renewable energy, it's environmentally friendly and it reduces greenhouse gas emissions," said Mike Lerch, CSUMB's assistant director of energy.
</p><p>CSUMB is one of 4 CSU campuses scheduled to have solar equipment installed in 2010 to deliver zero-emission renewable energy directly to the campuses.
</p><p>This is the area on the east side of Seventh Avenue, between Col. Durham Street and Butler Street where the solar panel array will be installed.
</p>
