---
slug: csumb-celebrates-20-years-of-giving-from-monterey-peninsula-foundation
title: "CSUMB Celebrates 20 Years of Giving from Monterey Peninsula Foundation"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>SEASIDE, Ca., Oct. 27, 2017 – California State University Monterey Bay (CSUMB) recently celebrated 20 years of annual giving from the Monterey Peninsula Foundation (MPF), amounting to a total of $7.6 million over 20 years. Over two decades of consecutive giving, including 49 total grants, MPF’s impact has been felt across campus from academic programs, to campus infrastructure to launching the CSUMB men’s and women’s golf teams in 1999.</p><p>“We are proud to carry on the tradition of golf for good, organizing a world class golf tournament and donating proceeds to community organizations,” said chairman of the board of the Monterey Peninsula Foundation, Clint Eastwood.</p><p>MPF’s first gift to CSUMB was in 1996 in support of the <a href="https://csumb.edu/service" target="_blank" data-saferedirecturl="https://www.google.com/url?hl=en&amp;q=https://csumb.edu/service&amp;source=gmail&amp;ust=1509204964451000&amp;usg=AFQjCNGga1A_SD_AuqcVKyeTkl0UxCXd1g">Service Learning Institute</a>. The institute has only grown since that initial gift. During the 2015-16 academic year alone, 2,840 students in 118 courses provided 97,220 hours of service in 415 community agencies and schools throughout Santa Cruz, San Benito and Monterey counties.</p><p>“We appreciate the confidence that the foundation has shown in our institution and in our programs. It is a positive relationship that continues to produce outstanding results,” said CSUMB President, Eduardo M. Ochoa.</p><p>Other major grants from MPF have included the newly installed dugouts at the CSUMB baseball and softball fields, Tanimura &amp; Antle family Memorial Library and the Otter Pups youth sports camps. The sports camps give local youth the opportunity to meet collegiate athletes and further bridge the gap between the university and the community. Grants have also funded a wide array of student scholarship opportunities.</p><p>“CSUMB could never have achieved all it has over the past two decades without the generous support of the Monterey Peninsula Foundation,” said Ochoa. “Its impact has been felt across the university. We hope the partnership will continue for years to come.”</p><p>MPF has distributed $135M in cumulative grants to roughly 300 local organizations who support youth, the arts, the environment or any other area that meets a community need.</p>
