---
slug: dr-harrison-appointed-president-of-csu-northridge
title: "Dr. Harrison appointed president of CSU Northridge"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>The California State University Board of Trustees today named Dianne F. Harrison, president of California State University, Monterey Bay, as president of California State University, Northridge. Dr. Harrison has been CSUMB president since 2006.
</p><p>“I am excited and honored to be selected as president of another fine institution within the California State University system, and look forward to working together with the entire campus community on the many opportunities for the future," said Dr. Harrison. Dr. Harrison will succeed retired President Jolene Koester, who served as CSUN president since 2000. She is expected to begin her new position as president sometime in June. CSUN Provost Harold Hellenbrand has been serving in an interim capacity as president since Koester's retirement in December 2011. “Dr. Harrison brings an outstanding portfolio of administrative experience, academic credentials and student-focused approach to her new position as president of Cal State Northridge", said CSU Trustee Bob Linscheid, who was chair of the presidential search committee. "She has an impressive record of accomplishments, a commitment to scholarship, and will provide strong leadership as the campus moves forward." Dr. Harrison came to Monterey Bay following a 30-year career at Florida State University where she served in various capacities starting as a faculty member, dean of social work, associate vice president for academic affairs, dean of graduate studies and vice president for academic quality and external programs. She holds a Ph.D. in social work from Washington University in St. Louis and a master's of social work and a bachelor's in American Studies, both from the University of Alabama. Her academic and research areas of expertise include HIV prevention among women and minority populations and higher education issues related to social work and university leadership. A prolific researcher and writer, Harrison has published dozens of articles and two books. She has served on the boards and committees of more than 60 national, state, and local organizations and community projects. Harrison currently serves as a board member of the American Association of Colleges and Universities, KQED Public Media for Northern California, NCAA Division II Presidents Council, MoreHealth of Monterey County, California Campus Compact, and the United Way of Monterey County. She co-chairs the Monterey Bay Educational Consortium and is a leader in education with the Monterey County Business Council. She was appointed by Governor Brown to the Western Interstate Commission on Higher Education. She is the recipient of "A Tree of Life Award" from the Parent Institute of Quality Education for her contributions to the education of all children and was inducted into the Monterey Business Hall of Fame.      
</p>
