---
slug: dr-ilene-feinman-appointed-dean-of-cahss
title: "Dr. Ilene Feinman appointed dean of CAHSS"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>California State University, Monterey Bay Provost Kathy Cruz-Uribe has announced the appointment of Dr. Ilene Feinman to the position of dean of the College of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences.
</p><p>Dr. Feinman, who has served as interim dean since October 2011, will continue to oversee the academic programs in the college, which are offered by the Division of Humanities and Communication; the Division of Social, Behavioral and Global Studies; the School of World Languages and Cultures; the Music and Performing Arts Department; the Teledramatic Arts and Technology Department; the Visual and Public Art Department; and the Integrated Studies Special Major program. Provost Cruz-Uribe expressed her thanks to the members of the dean’s search committee, which conducted a nationwide search. She praised Dr. Feinman’s support of student engagement and success. “Dr. Feinman is committed to supporting and enhancing the ability of the faculty and staff of the college to serve our students,” Dr. Cruz-Uribe said. Dr. Feinman said she has learned much about the vibrant life of the college that she had not seen from her vantage point as a faculty member in one division. “I am very excited to continue and extend the visioning conversation that we have started in the college and ever humbled and grateful for the encouragement I have received to serve,” she said. Dr. Feinman came to CSU Monterey Bay in 1996 and has served the campus in a variety of leadership capacities, including chair of the Division of Humanities and Communication and chair of the Academic Senate.
</p><p>In recognition of her accomplishments, Dr. Feinman was awarded the CSUMB President’s Medal for faculty in 2011. An interdisciplinary scholar in the areas of gender and peace studies, she received her Ph.D. in History of Consciousness from the University of California, Santa Cruz in 1997. She earned her bachelor’s degree in Integrated Studies from UC Santa Cruz in 1988.
</p><p>Learn more about the College of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences <a href="http://cahss.csumb.edu/welcome-cahss">here</a>.   
</p>
