---
slug: earthbound-farms
title: "Earthbound Farms"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p><strong>Earthbound Farm brings organic produce into campus food service</strong>
</p><p>Menus have taken on a whole new flavor at CSUMB since an effort to bring organic food to campus got cooking. The school's dining facilities, which are operated by Sodexho, serve more than 2,400 meals a day - about 57,600 meals per year. Starting this semester, some of those meals are made from organic produce grown by a local business, Earthbound Farm.
</p><p>The school has long purchased produce from local growers - 17 of 21 campus's food service suppliers are from the surrounding area. But the partnership with Earthbound Farm marks the school's first venture into organics.
</p><p>The food service operation also serves coffee from Santa Cruz Roasting Co. and buys baked goods from Cypress Baking - all part of its effort to support local businesses. No one can say definitively whether local-food projects help students avoid the infamous "freshman 15," but they do offer a fun, creative way to diversify and provide healthier and tastier foods in the dining halls.
</p><p>Recent years have seen a groundswell of student interest in local and organic food in college and university campuses across the country. The Chronicle of Higher Education recently reported that about 200 institutions in the United States have farm-to-college programs; half were started in the last five years.
</p><p>CSUMB's Farm to School Partnership, based at the Watershed Institute, was a lead player in the Sodexho-Earthbound Farm contract, responding to requests from students for organic, local foods.
</p><p>Campus food service providers face significant challenges. They have to offer food choices that are appealing and healthful, while catering to a variety of food preferences and do it all on a limited budget. Farm-to-college programs, organics, and locally-produced foods can help them meet those challenges with great success. "We have been trying to move toward organics, but until recently the market was minimal and the cost was high," said Dan Kaupie, head of food service for Sodexho at CSUMB. "The demand is increasing across the market, which has improved availability and made the prices much more competitive."
</p><p>Founded on two acres in Carmel Valley more than 21 years ago, Earthbound Farm is now one of the largest growers of organic produce in the world and uniquely capable of meeting the year-round demand for the wide variety of organic produce needed by the Sodexho operation at CSUMB to make the program truly viable. CSUMB's dining facilities will use Earthbound Farm organic salad greens, vegetables and fruits in various menu items, as well as offering a variety of Earthbound Farm's conveniently packaged organic "Grab &amp; Go" items such as salads with dressings and toppings, apple slices, carrot dippers and raisins.
</p><p>"This partnership between CSUMB and Earthbound Farm to bring fresh and delicious organic produce onto the university campus is extremely gratifying," said Myra Goodman, co-founder of Earthbound Farm. "Since my husband Drew and I started Earthbound Farm more than 21 years ago, our passion has been to bring the benefits of organic food to as many people as possible and serve as a catalyst for positive change. It's exciting to be able to bring these students organic produce, while simultaneously creating an opportunity for them to learn the importance of choosing fresh, unprocessed and sustainably produced food. Historically, 'dorm food' has not been known for its healthfulness or deliciousness and we're eager to help change both that perception and reality."
</p>
