---
slug: earth-day-celebrated-with-weeks-worth-of-activities
title: "Earth Day celebrated with week's worth of activities"
date: January 01 2020
---

<h3>Earth to CSUMB</h3><p>Earth Day is really Earth <em>Week</em> at CSU Monterey Bay.
</p><p>Since the first Earth Day in 1970, people around the world have sought to celebrate the planet through a variety of individual and community activities. But Earth Day is about more than observing the beauty and vitality of nature; it's also about renewing our commitment to saving our living planet.???
</p><p>The Associated Students' Environmental Committee has a variety of activities planned for the week. The week kicks off on <strong>Friday, April 19,</strong> when a group of students will clean up Casa Verde Beach in Monterey. Meet at the Student Center at 5:30 to carpool to the beach.
</p><p><strong>Saturday, April 20,</strong> is whale-watching day on Monterey Bay. Ninety students will head for the bay at 2:30, where they will board boats for the two-and-a-half hour cruise. “Sustainapalooza” is on tap for <strong>Monday, April 22</strong>. Student and community environmental organizations will staff information tables set up on the Main Quad from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. Events include hemp and bead bracelet making, potting plants, tie-dying and games. Students will have the opportunity to shop at a farmer’s market on <strong>Tuesday, April 23</strong>, from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. Outside vendors will sell produce in addition to the regular Tuesday farm stand.
</p><p>At 7 p.m., the film “Oceans” will be show in Room 120 of the Student Center. On <strong>Wednesday, April 24</strong>, at 2 p.m., the campus community is invited to celebrate the third anniversary of the planting of CSUMB’s Peace Tree. Meet at the Student Center for the walk to the tree. At 7 p.m. in the East Lounge of the Student Center, Professor Dan Fernandez will deliver the week’s keynote talk. “Sustain under the Stars” is on tap for <strong>Thursday, April 25</strong>. Outdoor Recreation and the Environmental Affairs Committee will sponsor a night hike from 7:30 to 10 p.m. The week ends with a reggae concert on <strong>Friday, April 26</strong>, at the Black Box Cabaret. <a href="http://ron.csumb.edu/calendar">See what CSUMB’s Return of the Natives project has planned for April 20 to celebrate Earth Day.</a> <a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2013/apr/15/charge-your-ride">A variety of recent transportation initiatives are helping to reduce vehicle-related greenhouse gas emissions on campus.</a>
</p><p><a href="http://ideals.csumb.edu/sustainability">Learn more about sustainability efforts at CSUMB.</a>  
</p>
