---
slug: employees-honored-for-service-to-csumb
title: "Employees honored for service to CSUMB"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>Liz MacDonald, Dr. Dan Fernandez and Kevin Saunders were honored for their leadership and dedication to the CSU Monterey Bay Vision at the Day of Welcome gathering Aug. 23 in the World Theater. <a href="http://president.csumb.edu/">President Eduardo Ochoa</a> welcomed the campus community back for the fall semester, delivered his <a href="http://president.csumb.edu/2012-president?s-welcome-address">State of the University address</a>, and then introduced the President’s Medal recipients. Last spring, the university community was invited to make nominations. The nominees represented a cross-section of campus – some have a long history at the university, others joined more recently; some have direct contact with students, others have an operational focus. MacDonald, senior editor in University Communications, was the staff recipient of the President’s Medal. Her colleagues focused on her leadership, her in-depth knowledge of the university, and her ability to explain complex concepts in simple, straightforward language. One of the people who nominated her called MacDonald a “true Internet marketing and communication specialist. The university has never seen the type of leadership and experience she brings to extending the brand of our institution using social media and the web.” MacDonald developed the new on-line course catalog, administers the university’s Facebook and Twitter presence, works with departments across campus to enhance their web presence, and edits the university’s magazine. She has been instrumental in sharing the university news with the widest possible audience. Dr. Fernandez was awarded the faculty medal. He embodies the threefold faculty mission of teaching, research and service. According to the nominating committee, he has taken on leadership roles that can be “lightning rods for a growing campus, and he has responded with grace in effectively facilitating the important changes at issue.” He’s done this while continuing his work as an outstanding and valued teacher in science and environmental policy and has taken a leading role in advocating for campus sustainability. Saunders, vice president for administration and finance, earned the President’s Medal for administrators. His colleagues expressed their appreciation of his efforts to create an atmosphere of mutual respect. “He projects to everyone working under his management that every person is doing as important a job as he is doing.” Dr. Ochoa added that, “His leadership of the University Corporation and in the area of administration and finance has been vital in keeping the university as a whole on a sound financial footing in these difficult economic times.” As part of the program, employee service awards were presented to 76 people who have been with the university for five years; 10-year pins were awarded to 41 staff members; and 34 others were acknowledged for 15 years of service.
</p><p>Also acknowledged were the faculty members who had been granted tenure and promoted to associate professor. They were: • Mr. Kevin Cahill, School of School of Computing and Design • Dr. Rachel Esselstein, Mathematics and Statistics Department ?• Dr. Miguel Lopez, Liberal Studies Department? • Dr. Bude Su, School of School of Computing and Design ?• Dr. Umi Vaughan, Division of Humanities and Communication ?• Dr. Maria Villaseñor, Division of Humanities and Communication? • Dr. Fred Watson, Division of Science and Environmental Policy ??In addition, Dr. Juan Jose Gutierrez, Division of Social, Behavioral and Global Studies; Dr. James Raines, Department of Health, Human Services and Public Policy; and Dr. Dan Shapiro, Division of Science and Environmental Policy, were promoted to full professor. Dr. Miguel Tirado was awarded emeritus status, a process that involved nomination and approval by faculty members, followed by administrative approvals. Dr. Tirado joined the university in 1994, served on the committee that did the initial planning for the university, and was the first faculty member to be hired.
</p><p><em>Photo by Kevin Garcia Dr. Dan Fernandez and Liz MacDonald, two of the President's Medal winners, with President Eduardo Ochoa. </em>
</p>
