---
slug: erik-edmonds
title: "Erik Edmonds"
date: January 01 2020
---

<h4>Life-changing experience leads to generous gift</h4><p>Erik Edmonds ('06, ESSP) is giving back to CSUMB in a big way. His recent donation of $5,000 to the Division of Science and Environmental Policy was the largest gift the university has received from an alumnus to date. "They caught me on a good day," Edmonds said with a laugh. Then, taking a more serious tone, the law school student at the University of Florida added, "I always planned on giving back, and will continue to do so annually for the rest of my life." Edmonds, who began college in Vermont, moved to Santa Cruz after being paralyzed in a car accident. Before long, he "started to get bored" and began looking at going back to school. Impressed by how helpful people at CSUMB were, he enrolled as an Earth Systems Science and Policy student in 2003. "I found the entire program to be fascinating - environmental ethics, justice, water law, resource assessment, coastal zone management. I was fascinated with learning science and policy in one big blanket, experiencing both sides of it." He also found great friends and mentors in the staff and faculty. "Judith Kildow is the best academic role model a person could ever have. We started the same semester, and from day one she took me under her wing. Celeste Akkad was also a good friend; she made me feel at home while I was in school, made it seem easier to be commuting from Santa Cruz." For his capstone, Edmonds assessed the feasibility of a proposed ecological restoration project at Elkhorn Slough. "I mapped out the regulatory agencies and political bodies that would be part of the approval process." He also spent two summers working as an intern with California Assemblyman John Laird, where he answered phones and handled constituents' problems. That experience had a strong impact - Edmonds is now toying with the idea of running for office in Florida when he finishes law school. "But, it's a big commitment, and I want to put some time into the community first." For now, he enjoys the varied political opinions of people in the Sunshine State. "It's a 50-50 state, not as left-leaning as California. A lot of intense discussions start outside of my classes, and I'm finding that I am defending myself constantly. It's fun." If the Florida Legislature doesn't work out, Edmonds is also open to the possibility of returning to CSUMB. "The University of Florida has a good environmental law program. I could teach an SEP class in environmental law." Undoubtedly, the Division of Science and Environmental Policy would welcome him back. "Of all the students I have had in my long career as a professor, Erik will stand out as the most memorable for his accomplishments, his generosity of spirit, and his commitment to life and to society," said Dr. Kildow. "While his donation to the university is a first for CSUMB, it does not surprise me. It is consistent with his strong character and his humility." Edmonds puts it simply: "The best thing to do was to give back to the school. That place changed my life."
</p>
