---
slug: faculty-highlights
title: "Faculty highlights"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p><strong><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2015/jan/13/native-educator-works-serve-needs-children">Native educator works to serve the needs of children</a></strong> Kathryn England-Aytes, a lecturer in psychology, has joined a newly created national organization that serves the needs of children. Dr. England-Aytes will serve as a consultant with the National Center on Adoption and Permanency, an organization that provides information, resources and services relating to adoption, foster care and child welfare. Her work with the center “fits into my own research interests on historical trauma and links with contemporary behavior, particularly in educational settings, in Indian Country,” she said. “As a Native educator, my goal is always to honor and integrate the cultures, values and traditions of Native students with learning opportunities for full participation in the larger community." – Jan. 13, 2015
</p><p><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2015/jan/8/sf-art-exhibit-showcases-work-csumb-faculty"><strong>S.F. art exhibit features work of CSUMB faculty</strong></a> A San Francisco art exhibit that invites spectators to take part by “dressing to transgress” features the work of CSU Monterey Bay faculty members.
</p><p>“Glamorgeddon: The Spectacle,” curated by Visual and Public Art Department professors Johanna Poethig, Dio Mendoza and Angelica Muro, is on display through Feb. 4 at the SOMArts Cultural Center. In Poethig’s words, the exhibit “celebrates how we choose to be fabulous, even as we critique the excesses of our own endangered species.” – Jan. 8, 2015
</p><p><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2014/nov/5/national-health-conference-has-csumb-flavor"><strong>National health conference has CSUMB flavor</strong></a> Dr. Britt Rios-Ellis, dean of the College of Health Sciences and Human Services, gave the keynote address at the National Conference on Health Disparities in Long Beach in early November. Her topic: Overcoming Challenges to Participation of Underrepresented Populations in Academia. – Nov. 6, 2014 <a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2014/nov/4/faculty-member-captures-spirit-fort-ord"><strong>Faculty art project captures the spirit of Fort Ord</strong></a> Fort Ord – once the largest military base in the American West – was a vital center during much of the 20th century. But that was two decades ago; now, many people know it only as a ghost town that surrounds CSU Monterey Bay. That otherworldly quality has inspired Enid Ryce, chair of the university's Cinematic Arts and Technology Department, to create Planet Ord, a project that explores the contemporary experience and historical echoes of the base. – Nov. 5, 2014
</p><p><strong>Globetrotting business professor in Croatia</strong> Dr. Murray Millson, professor of marketing and director of the the university's online E/MBA program, is attending the Global Business Conference in Croatia, where he will deliver a paper. Dr. Millson has lectured in Poland, Greece, Germany, Austria, England, Italy, Thailand, New Zealand, India and China. He has held teaching positions in Finland and Australia. – Sept. 25, 2014
</p><p><strong>Professor curates Oakland art exhibit</strong> Dr. Stephanie Anne Johnson, professor in the Visual and Public Art Department, curated the art show <em>InterGen: Womyn Citizen Artists' Expression.</em> Featuring inter-generational artists from local and international backgrounds, the show is on exhibition at Impact Hub Oakland's Omi gallery from September through October. – Sept. 25, 2014
</p><p><strong><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2014/sep/23/faculty-member-shares-diversity-strategies">Faculty member shares diversity strategies with national audience</a></strong> Professor Corey Garza has been successful in involving underserved students – minorities, low income and first-generation college students – in ocean sciences. On Sept. 24, he gave the keynote talk at the Consortium for Ocean Leadership's biennial educators retreat in Savannah, Ga., sharing his strategies for diversifying the student population in ocean sciences. – Sept. 24, 2014
</p><p><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2014/sep/18/touch-csumb-days-and-nights-festival"><strong>Cine Arts department chair programs part of Days and Nights Festival</strong></a> Enid Baxter Ryce, chair of the Cinematic Arts and Technology Department, programmed the daytime portion of Philip Glass' Days and Nights Festival in Carmel, Big Sur and on campus. She assembled a lineup of films, an animation and puppetry workshop (by CSUMB faculty member Soyeon Kim), talks and a social event. – Sept. 18, 2014
</p><p><strong>Kinesiology professor publishes on carb loading</strong> Dr. Brian Cook contributed an article to <a href="http://www.everythingtrackandfield.com/webapp/wcs/stores/servlet/PBOnePieceView?storeId=10152&amp;catalogId=10753&amp;languageId=-1&amp;pagename=525">Everything Track and Field</a> outlining a runner's need for carbohydrates during training and competition. – Sept. 11, 2014 <strong>Faculty members honored at Arts and Culture celebration</strong> Dio Mendoza and Angelica Munro are among the artists who were honored at the National Association of Latino Arts and Culture's 25th anniversary celebration in Saratoga. Both are lecturers in the Visual and Public Art Department. – July 25, 2014 <a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2014/jul/14/vpa-professor-steps-out-behind-scenes"><strong>VPA professor performs one-woman show at S.F. arts festival</strong></a> After more than 35 years of experience behind the scenes as a lighting designer and visual artist, Stephanie Johnson will perform her first one-woman show on July 21, as part of the AfroSolo Arts Festival in San Francisco.
</p><p>The performance – one of four that evening at the Marsh Theater in San Francisco – is a sneak preview of the festival’s Black Voices season. The works in progress will be shown as fully developed productions in late September. – July 14, 2014
</p><p><strong>Work by humanities professor to appear in literary quarterly</strong><a href="http://hcom.csumb.edu/diana-garcia">Diana Garcia</a>, a professor in the Division of Humanities and Communication, has had two poems accepted for the winter issue of <a href="http://prairieschooner.unl.edu"><em>Prairie Schooner</em></a>. The issue is tentatively titled, “Women and the Global Imagination.”
</p><p><em>Prairie Schooner</em> is a national literary quarterly published with the support of the English Department at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln and the University of Nebraska Press. – July 8, 2014
</p><p><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2014/jun/19/faculty-member-white-house-summit"><strong>Faculty member at White House Summit</strong></a> CSU Monterey Bay faculty member Lisa Stewart is taking her research on work-family issues to a national stage. Dr. Stewart, who teaches in the master of social work program, will take part in the White House Summit on Working Families in Washington, D.C., on June 23.
</p><p>?“I was invited because my research focuses on the challenges employees with disability-related caregiving face when they combine that with paid employment,” Dr. Stewart said. – June 19, 2014
</p><p><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2014/jun/13/dr-lindholm-goes-washington"><strong>Dr. Lindholm goes to Washington</strong></a> At Capitol Hill Ocean Week, held June 10-12, marine scientists and others interested in the state of the world’s oceans gathered in Washington, D.C. Among them was CSU Monterey Bay Professor James Lindholm, who was there on behalf of the CSU Council on Ocean Affairs, Science and Technology (COAST). He and several colleagues visited offices of elected officials and federal agencies to discuss contributions that the CSU has made to marine science. – June 13, 2014
</p><p><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2014/may/19/divers-eye-view-without-getting-wet"><strong>Seafloor Mapping Lab helps with Point Lobos project</strong></a> Visitors to Point Lobos State Marine Reserve are now able to visualize what the undersea world looks like, thanks in part to work by students and staff members of the Seafloor Mapping Lab. Data collected by Dr. Rikk Kvitek’s lab was used to create a 3D model of the underwater park, which helps visitors understand what lies beneath the sea. Until now, only divers could experience the mysterious underwater seascape of Point Lobos, with its kelp forests, schools of fish and marine mammals. – May 20, 2014
</p><p><strong>Reichard contributes to GLBT history exhibit</strong> A new exhibit, “Queer Past Becomes Present,” opened May 15 at the GLBT History Museum in San Francisco. Dr. David Reichard, a professor in the Division of Humanities and Communication, worked on a section of the exhibit dealing with queer youth. It traces the activism of San Francisco Bay Area LGBTQQ youth 25 and under from the 1970s to the present. – May 8, 2014
</p><p><strong><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2014/apr/16/professor-grad-student-work-protect-big-sur-river">Professor, grad student work to protect Big Sur River</a></strong> Doug Smith, professor in the Division of Science and Environmental Policy, and graduate student Sam Phillips are collaborating with federal and state resource agencies to develop the Big Sur River Watershed Management Plan. The plan details what residents and resource managers can do to sustain the steelhead population of this local waterway. – April 16, 2014
</p><p><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2014/mar/19/professor-creates-fort-ord-exhibit"><strong>Professor creates Fort Ord exhibit</strong></a> Fort Ord – once the largest military base in the American West – was a vital center during much of the 20th century. Enid Ryce, chair of the Cinematic Arts and Technology Department, with help from other faculty members, alumni and students, has created an exhibit, Planet Ord, that will explore the contemporary experience and historical echoes of the base. The exhibit will be on display from April 4 through July 20 at the Santa Cruz Museum of Art and History. – March 19, 2014
</p><p><strong>Emeritus faculty member named to Hall of Fam</strong>e John Ittelson, professor emeritus at CSUMB and technology faculty adviser in the CalStateTEACH program, received the U.S. Distance Learning Association’s Hall of Fame Award.
</p><p>Dr. Ittelson was honored for his contributions to distance learning through leadership, technology, research and teaching. – March 6, 2014
</p><p><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2014/jul/23/high-fidelity"><strong>Lecturer’s album earns award</strong></a> Students in Dr. Lanier Sammons’ advanced audio production class worked on an album recorded by Giacomo Fiore, a lecturer in music at CSUMB. Dr. Fiore’s project has been awarded a grant by New Music USA to fund its completion. The album features four contemporary pieces for electric guitar. Dr. Sammons is co-producer. – Feb. 26, 2014
</p><p><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2014/feb/12/professor-honored-lifetime-achievement"><strong>Professor honored for lifetime achievement</strong></a> Professor Yoshiko Saito-Abbott has been honored by her peers with a lifetime achievement award.
</p><p>At its annual meeting in March, the California Language Teachers Association will present her with its Hal Wingard Award. It recognizes an individual’s dedication and commitment to the language teaching profession over an extended period of time. Dr. Saito-Abbott came to CSU Monterey Bay in 1996 as an associate professor of Japanese. She is currently chair of the School of World Languages and Cultures and site director for the Monterey Bay Foreign Language Project. – Feb. 12, 2014
</p><p><a href="http://sbgs.csumb.edu/psychology-major"><strong>Psychology faculty members present research</strong></a> At the upcoming biennial meeting of the Society for Research in Adolescence, Ranu Sinha and Vickie Nam will present their work on letter writing as a tool for teaching in psychology courses.
</p><p>Their roundtable at the Austin, Texas, meeting will explore letters (epistolaries) as an innovative pedagogical tool for teaching courses on adolescent development.
</p><p>The reading, writing and sharing of letters offers a non-threatening approach that encourages students to discover and express identities and perspectives that might otherwise be silenced. – Feb. 5, 2014
</p><p><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2014/feb/3/fish-stories"><strong>Faculty artwork on display at Museum of Monterey</strong></a> Humans have always told fish stories. Ten of these fascinating stories are told in an exhibit on display at the Museum of Monterey during February.
</p><p>Jennifer Colby, a faculty member in CSUMB’s Liberal Studies Department, is the guest curator for this exhibit and three others to follow. All deal with the theme Fishing 2014. The current exhibit, "Fish Stories," features her own artwork and the illustrations of Amadeo Bachar, who teaches in CSUMB’s science Illustration program. – Feb. 3, 2014
</p><p><strong>Professor, alum keynote teaching seminar</strong> Professor Yoshiko Saito-Abbott and CSUMB alumnus Yo Azama will be the keynote speakers at the California Association of Japanese Language Schools annual teaching seminar Feb. 15 in Norwalk.
</p><p>Dr. Saito-Abbott is the chair of the School of World Languages and Cultures. Azama, a teacher at North Salinas High School, is a graduate of the program and earned a single subject teaching credential at CSUMB. In 2012, the Council on the Teaching of Foreign Language named him National Language Teacher of the Year. They will demonstrate effective teaching strategies using only Japanese and will share reading activities that promote language proficiency. – Jan. 24, 2014
</p><p><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2014/jan/2/more-honors-archaeology-professor"><strong>More honors for archaeology professor</strong></a> Professor Ruben Mendoza has been selected to deliver the keynote address at the annual meeting of the California Mission Studies Association (CMSA). The meeting will be held Feb. 14-16 at Mission San Antonio de Padua and Paso Robles.
</p><p>An expert on many aspects of mission and California history, Dr. Mendoza will speak to the conference theme of "Ranchos y Vaqueros: Missions and Mission Land After Secularization." His presentation will address the transformation of the missions and mission lands through the course of the 19th century.
</p><p>In other news, the city of <a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2014/jan/13/csumb-professor-featured-monterey-video">Monterey has produced a video</a> that highlights the work of Dr. Mendoza and his students.
</p><p>The video, “America’s Oldest Cathedral – the Cathedral of San Carlos Borromeo,” documents his work and the studies undertaken by the conservation team of which he was a part. – Jan. 2, 2014
</p><p><strong>Garza publishes work on Long Island Sound</strong> Dr. Corey Garza, a professor in CSU Monterey Bay’s Division of Science and Environmental Policy, is one of the editors of a new book that sums up decades of research about Long Island Sound.
</p><p>“Long Island Sound: Prospects for the Urban Sea” was written by scientists, resource managers and historians who gathered nearly 1,500 research papers to summarize what is known about the historic and recent trends of the health of Long Island Sound.
</p><p>In addition to his work as an editor of the volume, Dr. Garza contributed a chapter that offers guidance to planners, environmental managers and policymakers on how to manage coastal waters such as the sound.
</p><p>The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency provided funding for the book.
</p><p>Long Island Sound is an estuary that provides economic and recreational benefits to millions of people, while also providing habitat for more than 1,200 invertebrates, 170 species of fish and dozens of species of migratory birds. – Dec. 23, 2013
</p><p><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2013/nov/19/composers-society-honors-csumb-lecturer"><strong>Composers society honors CSUMB lecturer</strong></a> For the second consecutive year, Dr. Lanier Sammons, a lecturer in the Music and Performing Arts Department, has won the ASCAP Plus Award – Concert Music Division.
</p><p>The ASCAP Awards are made by the American Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers to honor the past catalog and recent performances of member composers. With the cash award, ASCAP supports the careers and fosters the continuing development of American composers in various genres.
</p><p>Dr. Sammons, a composer and guitarist, teaches analogue mixing and digital editing as well as the MPA capstone class and master classes. – Nov. 19, 2013
</p><p><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2013/nov/14/what-will-future-look"><strong>What will the future look like?</strong></a><strong><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2013/nov/14/what-will-future-look"> CSUMB lecturer helps answer that question</a></strong> What will the future look like? It's a question that writers, philosophers and scientists have been pondering for millennia. But the future that once existed solely in the human imagination . . . has arrived.
</p><p>That's the introduction to FutureScape, a six-part television series hosted by actor James Woods. The series will premiere at 10 p.m., Nov. 19, on the Science Channel.
</p><p>Linda Glenn, a lecturer in Humanities and Communication, appears in all six episodes – her “15 minutes of fame,” she says – as a bioethicist, lawyer and futurist. – Nov. 14, 2013
</p><p><strong>Another publication for Humanities professor</strong> Renee Curry, a professor in the Division of Humanities and Communication, has published an article in the latest issue of Imaginations: the Journal of Cross-Cultural Image Studies.
</p><p>Her article appears in the Scandals of Horror issue and is titled “Beautiful Junkies, Images of Degradation in <em>Requiem for a Dream,</em>” in reference to Darren Aronofsky’s 2000 film based on Hubert Selby Jr., 1978 novel. – Nov. 12, 2013
</p><p><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2013/oct/28/can-coral-reefs-adjust-global-climate-change"><strong>Can coral reefs adjust to global climate change?</strong></a> A study by scientists at Cal State Monterey Bay, the University of British Columbia and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration provides evidence that coral reefs may be able to adapt to moderate climate warming, improving their chance of surviving through the end of this century.
</p><p>Results suggest corals have already adapted to part of the warming that has already occurred.
</p><p>“While earlier modeling work suggested that coral reefs would be gone by the middle of this century, our study shows that if corals can adapt to warming over the past 40-60 years some coral reefs may persist through the end of this century,” said study lead author Cheryl Logan, an assistant professor in CSUMB’s Department of Science and Environmental Policy.
</p><p> The study is published online in the journal Global Change Biology. – Oct. 28, 2013
</p><p><strong>Art professor raises money for outreach programs</strong> Professor Stephanie Anne Johnson performed her piece, "Every Twenty-One Days: Cancer, Yoga, and Me" at Niroga Yoga in Berkeley. Her standing-room-only performances raised over $700 for The Niroga Yoga Institute’s outreach programs to youth, the incarcerated, and underserved populations. – Oct. 23, 2013
</p><p><a href="http://www.nasa.gov/content/nasa-supercomputer-generates-closer-look-at-future-climate-conditions-in-us/#.UmhMFI7xjHO"><strong>Scientists generate closer look at future climate conditions</strong></a> Global models are the foundation for many important climate studies, but they typically show climate changes at very large geographic scales – on the order of 100 to 250 kilometers.
</p><p>Using previously published large-scale climate model projections, a team of scientists from NASA; the Climate Analytics Group, a non-profit that provides climate data services; and California State University, Monterey Bay has produced climate projections for the U.S at a scale of one-half mile – approximately the size of a neighborhood.
</p><p>To generate these high-resolution projections, researchers used an innovative scientific collaboration platform called the NASA Earth Exchange (NEX) at NASA’s Ames Research Center at Moffett Field.
</p><p>The CSUMB scientists – Forrest Melton, Andy Michaelis and Weile Wang – contributed to all stages of the work, including the analysis, preparation of the dataset and documentation. – Oct. 14, 2013
</p><p><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2013/sep/9/mesa-bains-featured-ucla-exhibition"><strong>Mesa-Bains creates exhibit at UCLA museum</strong></a> The Fowler Museum at UCLA will honor its 50th anniversary with special exhibitions starting this fall, and a former CSU Monterey Bay professor is part of the celebration.
</p><p>Amalia Mesa-Bains, former chair of the Visual and Public Art Department and professor emeritus, will work with the Fowler collections to create "New World Wunderkammer," which will include three Cabinets of Curiosity focused on the Americas, Africa, and the Colonial works of the New World. – Sept. 29, 2013
</p><p><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2013/sep/25/faculty-filmmakers-featured-days-and-nights-festival"><strong>Faculty filmmakers highlighed at Days and Nights Festival</strong></a> Work by CSU Monterey Bay faculty members Soyeon Kim and Luis Camara will be part of the program of locally made films when their work screens as part of the Philip Glass Center for the Arts, Science and Environment’s annual Days and Nights Festival Oct. 2-6.
</p><p>Both films explore primary connections between parents and children in relation to specific landscapes. – Sept. 25, 2013
</p><p><strong>News from Humanities faculty members</strong> • Humanities Division faculty members Aimee Suzara and Debra Busman have had a panel proposal accepted for the Association of Writers and Writing Programs 2014 conference. The conference will be held Feb. 26-March 3 in Seattle.
</p><p>• Suzara's first full-length book of poetry, Souvenir, has been accepted for publication by Word Tech Editions. The book should be available in early 2014.
</p><p>• "A New Approach to Developmental Education: Fostering Habits of Mind in Today's Students," by Dr. Jennifer Fletcher, has been accepted for publication by Stylus Publishing. A number of CSUMB faculty members contributed to the text.  • Frances Adler and Kenneth Leatham were finalists for the Montreal International Poetry Prize. Professor Adler's poem "Supreme" and Professor Leatham's "Breakup" were selected from among 2,000 poems from 70 countries of the English-speaking world; 50 were named finalists. The poems will be included in a global anthology, due out at the end of this month.
</p><p>Leatham's poems "Hiser Beach" and "Song" appeared in the Autumn 2013 edition of the Monterey Poetry Review. His poem "Rosie" was translated and published in the October 2013 Turkish literary journal Gard.
</p><p>• Frank Bardacke's article, "The UFW and the Undocumented,"  was published in the spring 2013 edition of the journal International Labor and Working-Class History. – Sept. 5, 2013
</p><p><strong>Dean, faculty member collaborate on journal article</strong> Dr. Brian Simmons, dean of the College of Professional Studies, collaborated with Dr. John Berteaux, chair of the Division of Humanities and Communication, on an article published in the autumn issue of the Journal of Social Era Knowledge. "Additing Relational Accountability to Issues Concerning the Ethics of Care" is the co-authored article. – Sept. 5, 2013
</p><p><strong>Professor, alumna publish on California missions</strong> Professor Ruben Mendoza and his former student Jennifer Lucido – currently in graduate school at Sonoma State – have contributed articles to the November 2013 edition of the <em>California Mission Studies Association Boletín.</em>
</p><p>Dr. Mendoza pointed out that "the subject matter is a direct byproduct of work undertaken by the students of the Social, Behavioral and Global Studies program in local community service learning venues." – Sept. 3, 2013
</p><p><strong><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2013/sep/3/johnson-honored-lighting-design-work">Johnson honored for lighting design work</a></strong> Stephanie Anne Johnson, professor in the Visual and Public Art Department, has received an award for her work as a lighting designer.
</p><p>The Lighting Artists in Dance Award provides funds to support artistic collaborations with choreographers and dance companies. Those collaborations will result in dance performances presented in the San Francisco Bay Area.
</p><p>Johnson is working with Anne Bluethenthal &amp; Dancers as the visual designer for Skywatchers, a multi-disciplinary performance project that will take place in the Tenderloin neighborhood. – Sept. 3, 2013
</p><p><strong>New book by professor of Japanese</strong> Dr. Yoshiko Saito-Abbott is a co-editor of the recently released book, Japanese Language Education: Current Issues and Future Agenda, a collection of peer-reviewed papers.
</p><p>She edited the section dealing with pedagogy; other sections cover linguistics, literature and second language acquisition. The book is published by the National Foreign Language Resource Center at the University of Hawaii.
</p><p>Dr. Saito-Abbott is chair of the School of World Languages and Cultures and professor of Japanese at CSUMB, and director of the Monterey Bay Foreign Language Project. – Aug. 26, 2013 <strong><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2013/aug/14/iconic-san-francisco-mural-gets-facelift"> Iconic San Francisco mural gets facelift</a></strong> Johanna<strong> </strong>Poethig has been making public art in San Francisco since the 1980s. This summer, the professor in CSUMB's Visual and Public Art Department is "re-making" a mural she created in 1992, and employing students in the effort.
</p><p>Staff members from the San Francisco Human Services Agency contacted her about restoring her mural, “To Cause to Remember,” better known as the Statue of Liberty mural. It’s located on the side of a homeless shelter in the city’s South of Market district. – Aug. 19, 2013
</p><p><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2013/jun/21/business-professor-chair-ag-foundation-board"><strong>Business professor to chair ag foundation board</strong></a> Marylou Shockley, a professor in the College of Business at CSU Monterey Bay, has been elected chair of the Grower-Shipper Association Foundation board. She will serve a one-year term.??
</p><p>The foundation is the non-profit arm of the Grower-Shipper Association of Central California. It works to educate the community about the agricultural industry.
</p><p>??Its programs include AgKnowledge, an executive leadership program, and A Greater Vision, a series of forums on agriculture-related issues important to the community.? – Aug. 12, 2013
</p><p><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2012/oct/24/professor-join-hospitality-association-board"><strong>Professor to join hospitality association board</strong></a> John Avella has been elected to the Monterey County Hospitality Association’s board of directors.
</p><p>Dr. Avella, assistant professor of hospitality management and hotel/resort management in CSU Monterey Bay's School of Business, will join the board in January. He’ll serve on the association’s education committee. – Aug. 12, 2013
</p><p><strong><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2013/aug/5/professor-continues-work-african-diaspora">Professor continues work on African diaspora</a></strong> Professor Umi Vaughan continues to explore the African diaspora with his work on a dance festival and symposium to be held in San Francisco in August. Dr. Vaughan, a faculty member in the Division of Humanities and Communication, is one of the curators and a panel moderator for Performing Diaspora at the CounterPULSE theater.
</p><p>The festival features dance, music, theater, media and interdisciplinary artists who use traditional forms as a basis for experimentation and innovation.
</p><p>The symposium, set for Aug. 10, will kick off the three weekends of events. Performances will follow Aug. 15-18 and Aug. 22-25.
</p><p>The symposium will feature a discussion of the complexities of African dance, practice, production and teaching in the Bay Area and explore how artists address injustice and violence through their performances. Dr. Vaughan will moderate a panel titled “Spirit Moves: Sacred Dance Onstage.” – Aug. 5, 2013
</p><p><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2013/jul/8/faculty-member-honored-composers-group"><strong>Faculty member honored by composers group</strong></a> It’s been a productive year for CSU Monterey Bay music lecturer Lanier Sammons. During the last 12 months, he’s won awards from two national organizations and been chosen an artist-in-residence by a Santa Cruz museum.
</p><p>His composition, D.C. Home, won a top honor in the Young Composers Competition sponsored by the National Association of Composers/U.S.A.
</p><p>The idea for the percussion quartet originated on a train trip from New York to Charlottesville, Va. With nothing else to do, he stared out the window, “and was rewarded with a striking scene,” he said. – July 8, 2013
</p><p><strong><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2013/jul/5/students-help-tell-stories-chinatown">Grant funds development of oral history walking tour</a></strong> For six years, Professor Rina Benmayor’s students at CSU Monterey Bay have worked to preserve memories of the Chinatown area of Salinas.
</p><p>In partnership with the non-profit Asian Cultural Experience, students in her Oral History and Community Memory service learning classes have designed, conducted and archived oral histories focused on life stories and Chinatown memories of members of the Chinese, Japanese, Filipino and Latino communities.
</p><p>Those memories will be the basis for “Imagine Salinas Chinatown: An Oral History Walking Tour,” thanks to a $10,000 grant from Cal Humanities. – July 8, 2013
</p><p><strong><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2013/jun/11/art-change">ART for CHANGE</a></strong> Art can be a powerful tool for change, disseminating ideas and inspiring people to act.
</p><p>Sea Change, an exhibit at the Hayward Shoreline Interpretive Center, is doing just that — with the aim of bringing together art and concern for climate change.
</p><p>Enid Baxter Blader, chair of the Teledramatic Arts and Technology Department at CSU Monterey Bay, served as guest curator for the exhibit. It includes a diverse collection of contemporary projects by artists, architects and scientists who explore the shifting interactions of land and sea – specifically, the rising sea level in the San Francisco Bay Area and beyond. – June 24, 2013
</p><p><strong><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2013/jun/7/conservation-award-presented-faculty-member">Conservation award presented to faculty member</a></strong> CSU Monterey Bay faculty member Suzanne Worcester has received a Garden Club of America Club Conservation Commendation for her work with students and the community.
</p><p>The award is given to a person who has made significant contributions to conservation in her or his community. The Carmel-by-the-Sea Garden Club nominated her for the award. – June 11, 2013
</p><p><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2013/jun/12/archaeologist-talks-colonial-missions-asu"><strong>Archaeologist presents on colonial missions at ASU</strong></a> Dr. Ruben Mendoza continues to win accolades for his work on missions in California and the Southwest.
</p><p>An archaeologist and founding faculty member at CSU Monterey Bay, Dr. Mendoza has been invited to do a weeklong residency at Arizona State University in June. He will deliver two presentations as part of a program on research and digital preservation of colonial missions. His topics: “Canticle of the Sun: Archaeoastronomy and Solar Eucharistic Workshop in the Millennial New World,” and “The Cross and the Blade: Discovery of the Serra Chapel and the Archaeology of the Royal Presidio of Monterey." – June 1, 2013
</p><p><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2013/may/29/computer-science-professor-wins-teaching-award"><strong>Computer science professor honored for teaching, community service</strong></a> Kate Lockwood, assistant professor of computer science and information technology, has been honored with the Allen Griffin Award for excellence in teaching at the post-secondary level. The award is sponsored by the Community Foundation for Monterey County. – May 28, 2013
</p><p><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2013/jun/7/humanities-professors-collaborate-book"><strong>Humanities professors collaborate on book</strong></a> "Dialogue and Deliberation," a new book by Professors Debian Marty and Josina Makau, was recently published by Waveland Press.
</p><p>It explores the root of what the authors see as the communication crisis caused by the current argument culture and offers a realistic means to reconnect, to build community, and to make just and wise decisions together. – May 2, 2013
</p><p><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2013/jun/5/psychology-lecturers-work-featured-textbook"><strong>Psychology lecturer's work featured in textbook</strong></a> Kathryn England-Aytes, a lecturer in psychology at CSUMB, has contributed to a book that’s the first of its kind for educational publishing.
</p><p>“Teaching Truly: A Curriculum to Indigenize Mainstream Education,” published by Peter Lang Publishers, was written by American Indian rights activist Four Arrows. It provides guidance on incorporating indigenous perspectives into classrooms from kindergarten through college. – May 1, 2013
</p><p><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2013/jun/5/professor-contributes-essay-woody-allen-book"><strong>Professor contributes to Woody Allen book</strong></a> Dr. Renee Curry has published another article on one of her long-time research interests, director Woody Allen.
</p><p>Her latest piece, “Woody Allen’s Grand Scheme: The Whitening of Manhattan, London and Barcelona,” appears in the recently published book, “A Companion to Woody Allen,” one of the Wiley-Blackwell Companions to Film Directors series. – April 28, 2013
</p><p><strong><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2013/mar/29/csumb-professor-celebrates-ability">San Francisco public art project unveiled</a></strong> Professor Johanna Poethig, whose “Celebrate Ability” project was unveiled at the Hamilton Recreation Center in April of 2013, has been making public art in San Francisco and around the world since the 1980s. The six mosaic medallions that make up the project play with words and images of California native species to highlight shared abilities. The goal was to come up with designs that would appeal to the broad range of community members who use the center. The Hamilton Rec Center is just one of many sites in San Francisco where she has created public art. Others include the Civic Center post office, the I-Hotel, several buildings in the Tenderloin, the Juvenile Justice Center, Rochambeau Park and the South of Market area. – April 1, 2013
</p><p><strong>Film by Cin Arts professor takes film festival award</strong> Filmmaker and Cinematic Arts and Technology professor Luis Camara won the best cinematography award at the Queens Film Festival in New York City for his feature film <em>Silencio</em>. The film was also nominated for best director and best actor (his 10-year-old son, Dexter) awards. – March 13, 2013
</p><p><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2012/oct/4/book-examines-contemporary-cuban-society"><strong>Vaughan lectures at San Francisco museum</strong></a> CSU Monterey Bay professor Umi Vaughan will lecture at the Museum of the African Diaspora in San Francisco on Feb. 10 as part of the museum's authors in conversation series.
</p><p>Dr. Vaughan will talk about contemporary dance music in Cuba, based on his most recent book, <em>Rebel Dance, Renegade Stance: Timba Music and Black Identity in Cuba</em>. A question-and-answer session and salsa/timba dancing will follow. The program is set for 3 to 5 p.m. – Feb. 1, 2013
</p><p><strong><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2013/jan/22/pollack-honored-service-learning-achievements">Pollack honored for service-learning achievements</a></strong> In recognition of his work to promote service learning and community-campus partnerships throughout the Monterey Bay and Salinas Valley, Seth Pollack has been named winner of the 2013 Richard E. Cone Award by California Campus Compact.
</p><p>For more than 15 years, Dr. Pollack has been director of CSU Monterey Bay’s Service Learning Institute. He has helped the university become a national leader in service learning and civic engagement.
</p><p>“Service learning and partnerships are part of the very fiber of our being as a campus, and that is due in large part to the continued leadership on the part of Dr. Pollack,” said CSUMB Provost Kathy Cruz-Uribe. – Jan. 20, 2013
</p><p><strong>Lecturer’s work include in MexiCali Biennial</strong> Juan Luna-Avin, a lecturer in Visual and Public Art, has a work included in the MexiCali Biennial, opening Jan. 19, at the Vincent Price Art Museum on the campus of East Los Angeles College.
</p><p>"Cannibalism in the New World" is the theme of the exhibit. It features works by 33 artists from Mexico and California. While the title might conjure visions of Donner Party performance art, co-curator Ed Gomez told the L.A. Weekly the word "cannibal" has larger cultural implications, especially for Mexican society. "In colonial times during the conquest of Mexico, they believed that these heathens were worshipping pagan idols and practicing human sacrifice and forms of cannibalism," he says of how the Spanish viewed the natives. "That became the justification and rationalization of the complete eradication and genocide of these indigenous people."
</p><p>The exhibit continues through April 13. – Jan. 16, 2013
</p><p><strong><a href="http://www.calstate.edu/pa/news/2012/Story/Sony.shtml">Lockwood honored for 'innovative instruction with technology'</a></strong> The CSU and Sony Electronics, in partnership with Intel, presented the Sony Electronics Faculty Award for Innovative Instruction with Technology to Kate Lockwood.
</p><p>Lockwood, assistant professor in School of Computing and Design, is helping students develop more advanced skills by "flipping the classroom" – allowing students to familiarize themselves with subjects through technology, followed by practical skills application in class. She is one of four early-career faculty members from throughout the CSU to earn the award, which acknowledges innovative use of technology in delivering quality and affordable education to students and encourages continued achievements in teaching.
</p><p>She received a laptop computer, tablet, camera and accessories. – Nov. 20, 2012
</p><p><strong><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2012/nov/19/professor-presents-research-brazil">Vaughan presents at conference in Brazil</a></strong> It’s been a busy year for CSUMB professor Umi Vaughan.
</p><p>In April, his book, Carlos Aldama's Life in Batá: Cuba, Diaspora, and the Drum, was published.
</p><p>??In October, the University of Michigan Press published his most recent work, Rebel Dance, Renegade Stance: Timba Music and Black Identity in Cuba.??
</p><p>In November, Dr. Vaughan was invited by the Secretary of Culture in Salvador da Bahia, Brazil, to participate in an event called the Encounter of Black Cultures, where he presented his work on the African Diaspora. He learned as much as he taught. – Nov. 20, 2012
</p><p><strong><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2012/nov/21/professor-students-land-grant-teach-about-missions">Mendoza, students land grant to teach about missions</a></strong> A $177,000 grant has been awarded to CSUMB by the National Endowment for the Humanities for a program to train K-12 teachers from around the country about the history of California's missions.
</p><p>Archaeology professor Ruben Mendoza and two students wrote the grant for NEH's "Landmarks of American History and Culture" program. The program supports one-week workshops at historic sites to address themes related to American history, government and the arts. – Nov. 20, 2012
</p><p><strong><a href="//www.otterathletics.com/news/2012/10/29/GEN_1029124637.aspx?elinkdata=127051">Pollack attends FAR Fellows Institute</a></strong> Dr. Seth Pollack recently attended an event at NCAA headquarters in Indianapolis for faculty athletics representatives. He was one of two dozen faculty members from 300 Division II schools selected to attend the annual event.
</p><p>The Faculty Athletics Representatives Institute brings together a small group of FARs from Division II conferences for advanced training and professional development.
</p><p>Dr. Pollack, a professor of Service Learning and Director of the Service Learning Institute at CSUMB, is in his sixth year as the FAR for CSUMB athletics. – Oct. 29, 2012
</p><p><strong>VPA professor participates in international art exhibition</strong> Johanna Poethig, associate professor of painting in the Visual and Public Art Department and a nationally known muralist, was invited to participate in an international contemporary art exhibition in Tbilisi, Georgia.
</p><p>The event, Artisterium 2012, included a series of public art events over 10 days in October. This year’s theme was “The Protest that Never Ends.”
</p><p>Poethig gave a lecture/workshop on contemporary public art practices and community-based methodologies at the Tbilisi State Art Academy, and created a series of collaborative “tire totems” with students and passersby in a public market. – Oct. 23, 2012
</p><p><strong><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2012/oct/25/mpa-lecturer-recognized-composers-group">MPA lecturer honored by composers group</a></strong> Dr. Lanier Sammons, a lecturer in the Music and Performing Arts Department, is the recipient of an ASCAP Plus Award in the concert music division.
</p><p>The award is given by the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers, and is based on the unique value of each composer’s catalog of original compositions as well as recent performances. – Oct. 12, 2012
</p><p><strong>Math professors win national award</strong> A paper by Judith Canner and Jon Detka has won the Dex Whittinghill Award for best contributed paper from the Mathematical Association of America’s special interest group for statistics education. The award will be presented at a conference in San Diego in January.
</p><p>Their paper is entitled, “Using R in an Undergraduate Statistics Course."
</p><p>“Since the fall of 2000, Judith and Jon have been redesigning and co-teaching Applied Statistics, by using R, an open resource for statistics,” said math department chair Dr. Hongde Hu. “The class is well received by the students, and the university’s statistics minor has been steadily growing since Judith joined CSUMB.” – Oct. 10, 2012
</p><p><strong><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2012/sep/20/west-goes-east">Filmmaker takes story of water to New York, Southern California audiences</a></strong> Most Californians are familiar with how struggles over water have shaped the modern American West.
</p><p>Enid Baxter Blader will help to educate New Yorkers about that history on Sept. 28, when her video, “The West,” will be projected onto the Manhattan Bridge anchorage and archway. “The West” is an animation that presents a history of water engineering in California, a history that has determined the colonization and contemporary conditions of the western United States.
</p><p>On Oct. 6, Blader’s Water, CA project will be featured in an exhibition at the Armory Center for Arts in Pasadena. “The West” will be projected and screened continuously in the museum's galleries. Also on display will be the Water, CA website and two paintings created for the museum. One shows California without water engineering (prior to dams) and the second is California with contemporary water projects in place.  – Sept. 18, 2012
</p><p><strong><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2012/sep/5/professor-named-champion-arts">Professor named ‘Champion of the Arts’</a></strong> The Arts Council for Monterey County will honor Dr. Renee Curry at its annual Champions of the Arts gala on Jan. 19.
</p><p>Dr. Curry, a professor of English who teaches literary and film studies, will be honored in the professional category for her work as an arts advocate who was instrumental in bringing the CSU Summer Arts program to the Monterey Bay area. – Aug. 27, 2012
</p>
