---
slug: film-society-partners-with-philip-glass-center
title: "Film Society partners with Philip Glass Center"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>Two dynamic arts organizations are joining forces.
</p><p>The Monterey Bay Film Society and the Philip Glass Center for the Arts, Science and the Environment are developing a long-term partnership to bring celebration of the arts and sciences to Monterey County. The first steps in this process will happen Oct. 2-6 at the Henry Miller Library and Carmel’s Sunset Center when the Film Society’s Monterey Bay Film Festival will become part of the Days and Nights Festival, creating daytime film programming and workshops to compliment the exquisite nights of music planned for this year.
</p><p>The festival will feature screenings and workshops by Godfrey Reggio and musical performances by Philip Glass and others. The free popular teen film program will be held on Saturday, Oct. 5, and a free screening and workshop by filmmaker Diego Luna is tentatively scheduled for Friday, Oct. 4. A number of free tickets will be made available to Monterey County students.
</p><p>Full festival programming will be announced in early August.
</p><p>The Days and Nights Festival, now in its third year, is the premier program of the Philip Glass Center for the Arts, Science and the Environment. Developed by Mr. Glass, the festival is designed to encompass and nurture the arts in a way that welcomes the future while exploring the seminal developments in the arts throughout history.
</p><p>The mission of the Center is to gather the world’s leaders in the fields of art, science and the environment for a broad array of interdisciplinary activities including performances, seminars and education programs that inspire and motivate the public to become engaged with matters vital to the future of the natural environment and the quality of human existence.
</p><p>The Monterey Bay Film Festival, under the auspices of the Monterey Bay Film Society, has grown over its six years to incorporate films by local and international teen filmmakers and programming created by creative director Mike Plante of Sundance. The Monterey Bay Film Society is presented by the Cinematic Arts and Technology Department at CSU Monterey Bay. Focused on independent, avant-garde and community-based media, the Film Society works to develop and support the unique voice of our remarkable communities. The Monterey Bay Film Society grew out of the Monterey Bay Film Festival in 2007, as a response to rising teen violence rates in Monterey County. Founded by artist and CSUMB Cinematic Arts Chair Enid Baxter Blader, the film society annually works with over 2,000 teens to develop self-confidence through creative expression, a sense of place and community connectedness, job-related skills, exposure to college as a future choice, inspiration from internationally recognized artists, joy and hope.
</p><p>The activities are intergenerational, requiring college students to engage as mentors, building their own skill sets and sense of social responsibility, and bringing internationally renowned artists to the county to teach the college students and youth.
</p><p>These year-round activities will continue to grow in partnership with the Glass Center.
</p><p>For more information, contact Jim Woodard, festival managing director, at <a href="&#109;&#x61;&#105;&#x6c;&#116;&#x6f;&#58;&#x6a;&#105;&#x6d;&#64;&#x64;&#97;&#x79;&#115;&#x61;&#110;&#x64;&#110;&#x69;&#103;&#x68;&#116;&#x73;&#102;&#x65;&#115;&#x74;&#105;&#x76;&#97;&#x6c;&#46;&#x63;&#111;&#x6d;">jim@daysandnightsfestival.com</a>
</p>
