---
slug: fort-ord-alumni-award-scholarships
title: "Fort Ord Alumni award scholarships"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>The dozen students who were selected to receive scholarships from the Fort Ord Alumni Association cover the spectrum of academic majors available at Cal State Monterey Bay: human communication; business; liberal studies; global studies; teledramatic arts and technology; environmental science, technology and policy; health and human services; marine science; kinesiology.
</p><p>And they aspire to varied careers: sports journalist; pharmacist; public relations practitioner; master chef; teacher; filmmaker; environmental engineer; nurse; scientist; physical therapist.
</p><p>One plans to study abroad; two are members of the university’s athletic teams; some come from military families or have been on active duty; all have served their communities in some way.
</p><p>What the 12 students have in common is the ability to embrace the opportunities that life offers. The awards, which were given at the association’s annual luncheon on Oct. 27, bring to 112 the total number of scholarships – all in the amount of $1,000 – given by FOAA since its scholarship program began. The Fort Ord Alumni Association was established in 1996 – shortly after the university opened its doors on a portion of the former Army base – to provide financial assistance to students and to honor and preserve the heritage of Fort Ord and the contributions of the soldiers, civilians and their families who lived and worked there. Membership is open to anyone who wishes to join in these efforts. This year, more than 140 scholarship applications were received. Grade-point average, leadership, participation in extra-curricular activities and volunteer work at school or in the local community were considered in the evaluation process. Recipients and the scholarships they were awarded:
</p><p><strong>Memorial Scholarships</strong> • Gen. E.O.C. Ord Scholarship: Patrick Kelley, Chula Vista • Gen. Joseph Stilwell Scholarship: Pavan Gill, Chowchilla • Sgt. James Rucker and Helen Rucker Scholarship: Nicole Cometa • Gen. James Moore Jr. and Joan Moore Scholarship: Christina Alig, Castroville • Gen. William Gourley and Molly Gourley Scholarships: David Collins, Marina; Linnea Hoffmann, Woodcrest • Gen. Bertram Bishop Scholarship: Collin Spencer, Novato
</p><p><strong>FOAA Scholarships</strong> • Col. Hank Hendrickson Scholarship: Joseph Blackburn, Atascadero • 1st Sgt. Willie B. Smith Scholarship: Lilyana Staight, Oceanside • Col. Robert Furney and Mary Furney Scholarship: Heather Cusson, Oakdale • Lt. Col. John McCutchon and Col. Ila Mettee-McCutchon Scholarship: April Garrett, Fresno • Fort Ord Alumni Association Scholarship: Hayley Tharp, San Jose
</p><p>For more information, visit csumb.edu/foaa.  
</p>
