---
slug: grad-students-research-takes-csu-honor
title: "Grad student's research takes CSU honor"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>Reseach by a CSU Monterey Bay graduate student may prove helpful to managers of former Fort Ord lands. The work took a top honor for Bart Kowalski at the California State University Student Research Competition May 4 and 5 in Long Beach. More than 250 students from 21 CSU campuses were selected by their universities to enter the annual competition, which showcases excellence in scholarly research and creative activity. Kowalski’s research project took first place in the graduate student category of biological and agricultural sciences. The project involved determining the distribution of mammals such as coyotes, raccoons, striped skunks, bobcats and grey foxes that live on former Fort Ord lands. The research was done for his master’s thesis in Coastal and Watershed Science and Policy under the direction of Dr. Fred Watson. Kowalski’s study will provide land managers with information on the factors that impact the distribution of these mammals. “We've found a varied response by these animals to road/trail density and distance to urban edge, which means significant changes in these variables could disproportionally affect certain species,” Kowalski said.
</p><p>“Grey foxes seem most sensitive to urban edge, while coyotes are quite ubiquitous. We also found that road/trail density seems to be an important predictor for the distribution of raccoons, striped skunks and grey foxes,” he said.
</p><p>The research can project species distribution before and after hypothetical scenarios for change in trail management or land use, which can be incorporated into the decision-making process surrounding such changes.
</p><p>According to Dr. James Lindholm of CSUMB’s Division of Science and Environmental Policy, “Bart’s project provides a clear linkage between research and management of the natural world.” Kowalski came to the United States in 1992 from his native Poland. After high school in Costa Mesa, he earned a bachelor’s degree at UC Santa Cruz. “I fell in love with the Central Coast, and after graduating, moved around between Santa Cruz and Point Reyes (Marin County),” he said. “When I decided to pursue a master’s degree, I wanted to stay in the area, so CSUMB was an attractive choice.” Kowalski is scheduled to defend his master’s thesis this summer. Once he graduates, he hopes to use his research, GIS, tracking and mentoring skills in the field of conservation biology.
</p><p>“My perfect job would have just the right combination of field work, analysis and education,” he said. “I see myself managing a long-term monitoring program in order to get a better understanding of species’ distribution dependence on the seasons, availability of food and human activity.
</p><p>“At the same time,” he said, “I’d like to get people involved in their local parks and open spaces. The only thing cooler than seeing a wild animal in its natural environment is seeing the excitement on people’s faces when they get to see one.”
</p><p>(Learn about the Coastal and Watershed Science and Policy program <a href="http://sep.csumb.edu/cwsp/">here</a>.)
</p><p>In Long Beach, students made10-minute oral presentations before juries of professional experts from major corporations, foundations, public agencies, colleges and universities. The judges also reviewed each student’s research paper.?? In addition to Kowalski’s work, outstanding research by four undergraduates at CSUMB was presented at the competition. All were chosen by a campus selection committee. Those students, their degree programs, research topics and their faculty advisers are: • Sara Banco, psychology, “Internalizing and Externalizing Behaviors of Serious Juvenile Offenders from Parental Substance Using Homes," faculty adviser Dr. Jill Yamashita • Melissa Powell, psychology, "Familistic and Individualistic Values of Emerging Adults Across Cultures," faculty adviser Dr. Jennifer Dyer-Seymour • Emily Roncase, biology, "Directed mutagenisis for the identification of regulatory phosphate-binding sites on the auxin transport protein ABCB19 in the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana," faculty adviser Dr. Henrik Kibak • Sarah Whiteford, kinesiology, "Effects of Isometric Squats on Vertical Jump in Male Recreational Club Athletes," faculty adviser Dr. Kent Adams?
</p><p>Read more about the competition <a href="http://www.calstate.edu/pa/News/2012/Story/studentresearch.shtml">here</a>.
</p><p> 
</p>
