---
slug: grant-supports-imagine-college
title: "Grant supports Imagine College"
date: January 01 2020
---

<h3>Monterey Peninsula foundation gift helps students get to college</h3><p>California State University, Monterey Bay has received a grant from the Monterey Peninsula Foundation to support the Imagine College Summer Scholar Institute.
</p><p>The $380,000 grant will help Imagine College toward its goal of encouraging high school students to think that college is a realistic possibility and help them pay for it.
</p><p>Students from Seaside, Monterey and Marina high schools who have completed the ninth or 10th grade are invited to participate. Each student enrolls for a five-day session and can choose one of three courses to pursue during the week. Technology, environment or arts-related classes are offered.
</p><p>CSU Monterey Bay faculty members teach the courses; students and alumni serve as teaching assistants or mentors.
</p><p>While Imagine College will hold its third session this summer, it's been held in Houston and in Nashville, Tenn., for years.
</p><p>The cornerstone of the program is the guarantee of a $4,000 scholarship to any student who graduates from Seaside High with a 2.5-grade-point average, attends two weeks of Imagine College summer sessions and gets accepted to a college or university.
</p><p>CSUMB, the Monterey Peninsula Unified School District and UC Santa Cruz Educational Partnership
</p><p>Center jointly sponsor the institute.
</p><p>The Monterey Peninsula Foundation is committed to funding organizations and programs that demonstrate the greatest positive effect. The Foundation is guided in grant making by specific areas of interest that include: youth, education, health, human services, arts, community and environmental programs. It disburses funds generated by hosting the AT&amp;T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am and The First Tee Open at Pebble Beach.
</p><p>To read more about Imagine College, click <a href="http://csumb.edu/site/x24396.xml">here</a> and <a href="http://csumb.edu/site/x22184.xml">here</a>.
</p><p> 
</p>
