---
slug: hidden-health-crisis-on-campus-eating-disorders
title: "Hidden health crisis on campus: Eating disorders"
date: January 01 2020
---

<h3>Feb. 26 film showing, discussion will address the issue</h3><p>The National Institute of Mental Health estimates that 25 percent of college students have eating disorders. The same percent of college women report managing weight by binging and purging, says the National Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders.
</p><p>The problem is more widespread among women, but men aren't immune. The association says 10 to 15 percent of people experiencing anorexia or bulimia are male. To raise awareness of the issue, CSU Monterey Bay’s Health and Wellness Services will observe National Eating Disorder Awareness Week with a program on Feb. 26. Starting at 6:30 p.m. in the Black Box Cabaret, films culled from Art With Impact's short film contest will be shown, followed by a discussion and exploration of the ideas presented. Art With Impact is a San Francisco-based nonprofit that uses short films to reduce the stigma around mental illness. Its mission is to connect people to global issues through art and media and provide opportunities to share their voices, time and talent in meaningful ways. It selects and makes available some of the best short films on mental health issues and then connects those films with educational resources through events on college campuses. The Black Box Cabaret is located behind the Health and Wellness Services Building at Gen. Jim Moore Boulevard and Fourth Avenue. The public is invited to attend this free event, but a parking permit must be purchased. Driving directoions and a campus map are available at csumb.edu/maps. For more information or to request disability accommodations, contact Tony Delfino at 582-3988 or <a href="&#109;&#97;&#105;&#x6c;&#x74;&#x6f;&#58;&#97;&#100;&#x65;&#x6c;&#x66;i&#110;&#111;&#x40;&#x63;&#x73;u&#109;&#98;&#46;&#x65;&#x64;&#x75;">adelfino@csumb.edu</a>
</p>
