---
slug: hiramoto-named-vp-for-advancement
title: "Hiramoto named VP for advancement"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>California State University, Monterey Bay President Dianne Harrison has announced the appointment of Dr. Patti Hiramoto as Vice President for University Advancement. After serving as President Harrison’s Chief of Staff since 2009, Dr. Hiramoto will lead CSU Monterey Bay’s Division of University Advancement, which encompasses development, communications, and external and governmental relations. In announcing Dr. Hiramoto’s appointment, Dr. Harrison praised her management ability as Chief of Staff and her effectiveness as interim leader of University Advancement, a role she assumed in February 2011. In addition to Dr. Hiramoto’s record of success at CSU Monterey Bay, Dr. Harrison also cited her skills in building community relationships. “We are fortunate to have such an experienced and capable individual ready to step into this important role,” Dr. Harrison said. “I am confident Dr. Hiramoto and the outstanding team in University Advancement will continue to tell our story of success, while building partnerships that benefit our students and the entire region.” Dr. Hiramoto said she has great appreciation for the strengths and potential of the University Advancement staff. “I am very excited and honored to lead this team as we actively promote the accomplishments of our students and faculty to further advance the university and its mission,” she said. Dr. Hiramoto has worked at CSU Monterey Bay for seven years, first from 1996 to 2000 as director of equal employment opportunity and again since 2008, when she rejoined the university as associate director of academic personnel. From 2000 to 2008, Dr. Hiramoto worked at UC Santa Cruz as director of equal employment opportunity and affirmative action. A 15-year resident of Monterey, she earned a doctorate in higher education at UC Berkeley and has also worked at San Francisco State and Stanford University, where she served as director of student services for the School of Education. Dr. Hiramoto has a master of science degree in counseling from San Francisco State and a bachelor of arts degree in architecture from UC Berkeley.
</p>
