---
slug: honors-convocation-may-5-2018
title: "Honors Convocation May 5, 2018"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>SEASIDE, Calif., May 5, 2018 – California State University, Monterey Bay (CSUMB) held its annual honors convocation May 5, 2018, recognizing select students for distinguished academic achievements.</p><p>The honors students will be among the approximately 2,353 graduates expected to cross the stage at CSUMB's 22nd commencement ceremony May 18th and 19th, 2017.</p><p>Award winners:</p><p>Award winners:</p><p><strong>• President's Award for Exemplary Student Achievement</strong>, given to a well-rounded student who made notable contributions to a particular area of university life through depth of involvement and service as a student leader; participated actively as a positive agent of innovation and action with demonstrated service to the campus community; and achieved a grade-point average of 3.5 or higher: <strong>January Cornelius</strong>, Collaborative Health and Human Services</p><p>January Cornelius is a collaborative health and
human service major with a concentration in public administration and community
health. She plans to obtain a master’s degree in public health at Emory
University after graduation.</p><p>• <strong>Provost's Award for Exemplary Academic Achievement,</strong> given to a student who has demonstrated exemplary achievement in his or her major; excelled personally and academically with a cumulative grade-point average of 3.5 or higher; and contributed to the learning community of CSUMB: <strong>Robert Alexander Jensen</strong>, Human Communications</p><p>Robert Alex Jensen, a McNair Scholar, will graduate summa cum laude from CSUMB with a bachelor’s in human communication, a concentration in peace studies and a minor in music. Alex will attend Harvard
Divinity School’s Master of Divinity program this fall as a Dean’s Fellow.</p><p>• <strong>Outstanding Senior Award for Social Justice</strong>, given to a student who has been a positive agent of change and participated in a project that promotes social justice and generates awareness that benefited local communities: <b>Chelsey Bucher-Hebert</b><strong>,</strong> Psychology.</p><p>• <strong>Alumni Vision Award</strong>, given to a first-generation student who manifests the beliefs and tenets of the Vision Statement through personal example, voice and initiative, and has provided leadership in a multicultural project or activity that extends the university’s Vision into the lives of others: Theresa Dexter<strong>,</strong> Collaborative Health and Human Services.</p><p>• <strong>Outstanding Senior Scholar-Athlete Award</strong>, given to a student-athlete in recognition of exemplary academic achievement: <strong>Lucy Gates, </strong>Kinesiology.</p>
