---
slug: honors-convocation-may-19-2017
title: "Honors Convocation May 19, 2017"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>SEASIDE, Calif., May 12, 2017 – Cal State Monterey Bay (CSUMB) will hold its annual honors convocation May 19, 2017, recognizing select students for distinguished academic achievements.</p><p>Six students will receive special awards, 21 will be honored for their Service Learning work and 399 others will be acknowledged for having earned grade&#45;point averages of at least 3.5.
</p><p>The honors students will be among the approximately 2,083 graduates expected to cross the stage at CSUMB's 21st commencement ceremony May 20, 2017.
</p><p>Award winners:
</p><p>Award winners:
</p><p><strong>• President's Award for Exemplary Student Achievement</strong>, given to a well&#45;rounded student who made notable contributions to a particular area of university life through depth of involvement and service as a student leader; participated actively as a positive agent of innovation and action with demonstrated service to the campus community; and achieved a grade&#45;point average of 3.5 or higher: <strong>Anita Garcia</strong>, Computer Science.
</p><p>Garcia is a member of the <a href="https://sites.google.com/site/csitin3/">CS&#45;in&#45;3 program</a>, through which she has earned her computer science degree with a concentration in software engineering in three years. Along with her outstanding academic performance, she has reached out to help fellow students through the peer&#45;led team learning program, and is the founding president of an all&#45;woman campus computer science club herScript. She hopes someday to start her own business in Monterey County to help AgTech companies include high&#45;tech tools in their decision&#45;making.
</p><p>• <strong>Provost's Award for Exemplary Academic Achievement,</strong> given to a student who has demonstrated exemplary achievement in his or her major; excelled personally and academically with a cumulative grade&#45;point average of 3.5 or higher; and contributed to the learning community of CSUMB: <strong>Isabella Romero</strong>, Psychology.
</p><p>Romero came to CSUMB with an interest in exploring the causes, implications and treatment for mental health conditions.  Through her classroom and service learning experiences at CSUMB, she began to focus on veterans’ health issues. She served as a research assistant at the VA treatment campus in Menlo Park and completed a senior capstone project examining the use of medical cannabis and its impact on symptoms of PTSD. She will enter the PhD program in clinical psychology at Palo Alto University in the fall.
</p><p>• <strong>Outstanding Senior Award for Social Justice</strong>, given to a student who has been a positive agent of change and participated in a project that promotes social justice and generates awareness that benefited local communities: <strong>Mia Elliott,</strong> Liberal Studies.
</p><p>Elliot served as the campus chapter president of the NAACP, which also gave her the opportunity to engage with the community outside of campus. She plans to continue her studies at George Washington University in pursuit of a master’s in education policy, with a goal of becoming a lobbyist for educational reforms to promote the interests of students of color.
</p><p>• <strong>Alumni Vision Award</strong>, given to a first&#45;generation student who manifests the beliefs and tenets of the Vision Statement through personal example, voice and initiative, and has provided leadership in a multicultural project or activity that extends the university’s Vision into the lives of others: <strong>Steven Goings &#40;2010&#41;,</strong> Social and Behavioral Sciences and currently a student in the Master of Social Work program at CSUMB.
</p><p>Goings arrived on campus as a 43&#45;year&#45;old undergraduate in 2006. He was a co&#45;founder of the NAACP@CSUMB and began the tradition of bringing the NAACP’s Monterey County Branch to campus annually to meet with the college branch for Black History Month. Following his 2010 graduation from CSUMB, he worked for four years with the AmeriCorps through Service Learning Institute. Now a student in the Master of Social Work program, he has remained active in many campus and community events, including helping to organize “You Otter Know Seaside” to promote engagement between his hometown and our campus.
</p><p>• <strong>Outstanding Senior Scholar&#45;Athlete Award</strong>, given to a student&#45;athlete in recognition of exemplary academic achievement: <strong>Isaiah Smith,</strong> Business Administration.
</p><p><strong>Service Learning awards</strong> were presented to students in each academic major who have demonstrated exceptional commitment to service in the local community.
</p><p>Service Learning award winners and their majors:
</p>
