---
slug: ideas-of-march-mobile-app-competition-at-csumb
title: "'Ideas of March' mobile app competition at CSUMB"
date: January 01 2020
---

<h3>Opportunity for participants to create the next killer app</h3><p>It’s innovative, intense and for those who thrive on creative competition, a shot at fame and fortune. It’s the “Ideas of March,” a three-day Android development competition open to college students with basic programming skills who are interested in producing mobile apps. Small businesses, non-profits and government agencies are encouraged to submit ideas for apps that would benefit their organizations. The event, which kicks off on March 14, is sponsored by the Institute for Innovation and Economic Development at CSU Monterey Bay, the university’s Computer Science and Information Technology program and the Monterey County Business Council. Teams will build their applications throughout the weekend, and then present their work – real, working prototype apps – on the evening of March16, with winners chosen in several categories. Last year’s overall winner was an app created for Cedar Street Times, a weekly newspaper in Pacific Grove. The app allows the paper to share its news from its own website and also provides an avenue for community members to post news and events. There is no cost to participate, but prospective participants must apply by Feb. 21. Food and beverages will be provided during event hours. The event will be held in the Media Learning Center (Bldg. 18) on the CSUMB campus. <a href="http://csumb.edu/maps">Driving directions and a campus map.</a> To enter the competition or to submit an idea for an app, visit the <a href="http://innovation.csumb.edu/ideas-march">Institute for Innovation and Economic Development</a>. For information, call the institute at 582-3230. Prospective competitors should note that all code created during the competition will be open source and will be posted on the web.? <a href="http://www.ksbw.com/news/central-california/monterey/Get-your-app-on-CSUMB-hosts-app-invention-event/9401890">View a TV news story from the 2012 competition</a>.  
</p>
