---
slug: international-education-week-nov-17-19
title: "International Education Week Nov. 17-19"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>CSU Monterey Bay welcomed its largest-ever group of international students this year. About 200 students from other nations are attending CSUMB this semester, and hundreds more are coming to campus for shorter stays to study English through an intensive American language and culture program.?
</p><p>The program is observing International Education Week Nov. 17-19. This joint initiative of the U.S. departments of State and Education is an effort to promote programs that prepare Americans for a global environment and attract future leaders from abroad to study, learn, and exchange experiences in the United States. Events include: • <strong>Nov. 17</strong>, 11 a.m.-3 p.m., Main Quad: International education information tables and games. Students from CSUMB's partner universities around the world will staff information tables to tell students about the benefits of studying in their country. Applications will be available as will information about how to get passports and visas. Seasoned travelers know the importance of affective packing and students will get to practice packing – blindfolded. Neatest suitcase wins a prize. The dining commons will prepare food from Germany, France, Japan, Mexico, and Brazil. • <strong>Nov. 18</strong>, 6-8 p.m., Media Learning Complex. Culture Panel I – Students will talk about their home countries. Hear about Myanmar, Nigeria, Brazil, and Serbia. • <strong>Nov. 19</strong>, 6-9 p.m., University Center Living Room Culture Panel II –Students will talk about their home countries. Hear about Brazil, Serbia, Guatamala Norway and others. <a href="http://international.csumb.edu">Learn about International Programs at CSUMB</a>  
</p>
