---
slug: love-the-skin-youre-in
title: "'Love the Skin You're In'"
date: January 01 2020
---

<h3>Feb. 22 talk marks eating disorders awareness week</h3><p>CSU Monterey Bay will mark National Eating Disorders Awareness Week with a presentation by author, speaker and yoga therapist Brie Mathers. The free event will take place at 7 p.m., Feb. 22, in the University Center living room. The public is invited. Mathers’ topic is “Love the Skin You’re In – Taking out the Social Programming that Rules our Self-Images and Pocketbooks.” She’ll share the story of her near-miss Olympic dream due to anorexia and her healing, which inspired a passionate speaking campaign and online recovery program. After the presentation, Mathers (pictured at left) will be available for questions and will sign copies of her book, “Freedom to Blossom – An Invitation to Shine.” The National Eating Disorders Association has proclaimed Feb. 20-26 as the 24th annual week set aside to talk about eating disorders and unrealistic body-perfect ideals, and to fight for more research, support and access to treatment for people suffering from these life-threatening illnesses. Through NED Awareness Week, the national non-profit group seeks to educate the public on signs and symptoms of eating disorders and encourage people to get help. The goal is also to spread a message of hope: Help is available, recovery is possible and those affected are not alone in their struggle. According to the group’s website, <a href="http://www.nationaleatingdisorders.org:">www.nationaleatingdisorders.org:</a> • Nearly 10 million females and 1 million males in the U.S. are battling eating disorders such as anorexia and bulimia, while millions more suffer from binge eating disorder.
</p><p>• The peak onset of eating disorders occurs during puberty and the late teen/early adult years, but symptoms can occur as young as kindergarten.
</p><p>• More than one in three normal dieters progresses to pathological dieting.
</p><p>CSUMB’s Personal Growth and Counseling Center is sponsoring the event in collaboration with the office of Student Activities and Leadership Development, Student Housing and Residential Life, and the athletic department. Driving directions and a campus map are available at csumb.edu/map. For more information on the event, contact Christiane Dettinger at 582-3969; to request disability accommodations, contact Gary Rodriguez at 582-4437.  
</p>
