---
slug: magazine-rankings-highlight-many-university-strengths
title: "Magazine rankings highlight many university strengths"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>The Speakers Bureau provides speakers at no cost to service clubs, schools, senior centers, and other groups in the local area.</p><p>Booking a speaker is easy. Just e-mail your request to the CSUMB Public Information Officer.</p><p>CSUMB faculty and staff members are currently offering talks on the following topics:</p><h4>Research at CSUMB: Why we do it and what it means for the Monterey Bay region</h4><p>Researchers at the university bring in millions of dollars in grants. Those funds create jobs and support the development of new knowledge. We’re eager to discuss economic development and to share ideas for cooperation and collaboration between the university and industry.
</p><p>Presented by a university administrator.
</p><h4>From ‘You’ve got to be kidding!’ to ‘Ah-ha!’ – hope for our oceans through insight and innovation</h4><p>The talk discusses innovative ways to address the unprecedented threats of climate change, sea level rise, ocean acidification, pollution, fishery declines, coastal erosion, algal blooms and storm intensification on the coastal oceans and communities.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Rikk Kvitek
</p><h4>Peeling back the blue: how we map and use 3D visualization to reveal and learn from Earth’s hidden seafloor landscapes</h4><p>Although the global ocean is the driver of weather, a highway for marine commerce, a reservoir of vast marine resources, and our playground, we know more about distant planets than we do about the seafloor. Imagine if the next time you were standing at the ocean's edge that instead of watching crashing waves, you were able to visualize submarine canyons, underwater seamounts and ridges, and even a kelp forest teeming with marine life. The State of California has undertaken a cutting&#45;edge project to make this possible by mapping the seafloor of all the state's waters. Dr. Kvitek will show you the first images created from this effort and share with you how this new information is already being used in a multitude of ways.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Rikk Kvitek
</p><h4>Science with a mission at CSUMB</h4><p>The CSUMB Science Division includes experts from both terrestrial and marine realms. Their common mission is to use sound science to solve environmental problems in the tri&#45;county area. They use cutting&#45;edge technology and student power for the good of the community.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Doug Smith
</p><h4>San Clemente Dam removal</h4><p>San Clemente Dam will be removed from the Carmel River to reduce the risk of dam failure and to foster the historic salmon run. This large&#45;scale project will have long&#45;term impacts on the watershed, and could be a model for other dam removal projects in California.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Doug Smith
</p><h4>Water resources on the Monterey Peninsula</h4><p>People on the coast between Carmel and Seaside have been seeking a sustainable water resource for decades. The search has been fraught with technical, political and legal pitfalls. What are the technical solutions? What are the political/legal constraints? What's the latest plan?
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Doug Smith
</p><h4>The geology of coastal Monterey county: resource opportunities and geological hazards</h4><p>Wherever you stand, there is a stack of rocks below your feet that records the local geological history and governs the kind of urban development that is suited to the region. We will consider the water resources and environmental hazards of our region. Water is scarce, and urban expansion is locally constrained by coastal erosion, landslides and hill slope erosion potential.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Doug Smith
</p><h4>Institute For Applied Marine Ecology (IFAME)</h4><p>The primary goal of the IfAME is to provide science in support of government decision&#45;making ranging from local municipalities to state, federal and international governments. That science includes monitoring the new state marine protected areas along California's coast, exploring the resources of National Marine Sanctuaries from Monterey to New England, studying the impact of commercial bottom trawling on seafloor habitats around the world, and diving from the world's only undersea laboratory in the Florida Keys. The closely linked secondary goal is to involve CSUMB students in the conduct of this research.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. James Lindholm
</p><h4>Math, revealed – Cracking the mysteries of math for youngsters</h4><p>New research examining thousands of students in two dozen California school districts finds that students already doing well in math in the seventh grade are more likely to take advanced math courses in high school and meet college entrance requirements. But for many students who struggle with math in grade seven, there is no clear path to learning and achievement. CSUMB math professor Hongde Hu uses math games, engaging presentations and curriculum he has been refining for years to reach those youngsters.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Hongde Hu
</p><h4>Innovation in higher education</h4><p>Higher education is facing challenges in an era of increased demand, changing demographics and declining state support. American colleges and universities will need to adopt new educational approaches and technologies to serve more students while maintaining quality. CSUMB is addressing this through a variety of ways: a new three&#45;year computer science degree developed in partnership with Hartnell College; creation of an Institute for Innovation and Economic Development; and exploring the potential to use technology for online programs.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Eric Tao
</p><h4>Eyewitness memory</h4><p>Eyewitnesses are notoriously bad in the identification of the perpetrator of a crime. If you witness a crime, can you be sure that your memory for that event is accurate? Not really. Scientific evidence explains that memory changes over time, is malleable and is easy to manipulate via suggestibility and misattribution. Find out why eyewitnesses are so bad at remembering details of the crime and in the identification of the perpetrator.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Jill Yamashita
</p><h4>Creating memories for events that never happened</h4><p>False memories are the remembering of events that never took place. Memory is easily manipulated and can change without our awareness. Memory research shows that it is easy to create false memories &#40;for example, a memory of getting lost in the mall&#41;. One of the issues with false memory is that you cannot tell the difference between a false memory and a real one.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Jill Yamashita
</p><h4>They all look the same: the other-race effect</h4><p>The other&#45;race effect is a deficit in the ability to recognize or identify a face that is of a different race. You might hear a child say, “All of the faces look the same,” which is common response when looking at faces of an unfamiliar or different race. I examine what influences the other&#45;race effect and what helps to minimize this effect.
</p><p>Presented by  Dr. Jill Yamashita
</p><h4>A vision for service: At CSUMB, giving back is a core value</h4><p>CSUMB has won national acclaim for integrating community service with each student’s academic experience, and is changing lives – and our ideas about learning and community – in the process
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Seth Pollack
</p><h4>Mexican entrepreneurs: a new look to immigration</h4><p>Immigrants aren’t always who you think they are.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Juan Gutierrez
</p><h4>Creating customer loyalty</h4><p>John Avella, head of CSUMB’s hospitality program, has 40 years of human resource development and teaching experience in the hospitality industry. He has been vice president of human resources for Marriott Corporation, The Rainbow Room and Windows on the World, and president of Human Resource Concepts. His work focused on management and executive development, Customer service and organizational strategic change. He has studied the application of emotional intelligence to customer service/loyalty, emotional labor and leadership. He has developed a process that teaches people to “connect” to the customer.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. John Avella
</p><h4>The region’s hospitality industry – what’s ahead?</h4><p>The lingering effects of the recession and looming water problems are just two issues facing the local tourism/hospitality industry. What’s on the horizon?
</p><p>Presented by Dr. John Avella
</p><h4>Sustainable hospitality management</h4><p>Presented by Dr. John Avella
</p><h4>Kinesiology gains in popularity</h4><p>Kinesiology – the study of human movement – is the fastest&#45;growing major on campus. As the U.S. population skews older – and fatter – there’s a demand for fitness trainers, physical therapists and researchers who study the science of movement and performance. Dr. Kent Adams, a prolific researcher as well as head of the kinesiology department, shares his findings to help people keep fit across the lifespan.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Kent Adams
</p><h4>Nursing program will meet a need</h4><p>The health care industry is coping with the “silver tsunami” of aging baby boomers, combined with the impact of health care reform. Nurses will play a big role in meeting both challenges, but will need more than a two&#45;year degree to do so. CSUMB has partnered with four community colleges in the region to offer a four&#45;year degree that prepares them to serve as health care navigators, helping patients manage multiple conditions such as hypertension and diabetes outside a hospital setting.
</p><p>Presented by Marianne Hultgren
</p><h4>Unraveling standardized testing and evaluation</h4><p>Mark O’Shea, a professor education at CSUMB, has been studying the standards movement from the perspective of the classroom teacher for years. He has conducted extensive clinical research in standards&#45;based education and has consulted with school districts and state departments of education. He can also talk about the new Common Core standards – he helped state officials develop the science standards – and their implementation in California.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Mark O’Shea
</p><h4>Digging through time</h4><p>Dr. Ruben Mendoza is an archaeologist, writer, and photographer who has explored the length and breadth of Mexico, Central America, Europe, and the U.S. Southwest documenting both pre&#45;Columbian and Colonial era sites and collections. He has directed major archaeological investigations and conservation projects at missions San Juan Bautista, Carmel, and Nuestra Señora de la Soledad, among others. Recent efforts at the Royal Presidio of Monterey resulted in the tandem discovery of the earliest Serra era Christian houses of worship in California dated to 1770 and 1771. And he has made astronomically and liturgically significant discoveries of solstice, equinox, and feast day solar illuminations of mission church altars throughout California, the U.S. Southwest, and Mesoamerica.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Ruben Mendoza
</p><h4>Osher Lifelong Learning Institute is bringing seniors back to school</h4><p>Are you sitting on an idea for the next great American novel and don't know how to begin? Would you like to understand contemporary art? Ever wonder where our special brand of weather comes from? Would you like to know the history of Cannery Row? Then the Osher Lifelong Learning Institute &#40;OLLI@CSUMB&#41; is the place for you. These are just some of the topics that have been covered in courses that range from one day to eight weeks during the Fall and Spring semesters each year. For adults age 50 or better and funded in part by the Bernard Osher Foundation, many of our courses are taught by CSUMB professors. There are no test and no grades, just good fun and great fellowship with friends and neighbors in our region. Learn how and why OLLI@CSUMB came into being and how it has evolved to reflect the interests of our adult learners.
</p><p>Presented by Michele Crompton
</p><h4>Summer arts</h4><p>Sword fights, improvisational comedy, animation, painting: Summer school was never this much fun. Several hundred students – high school, college, and adult members of the local community – come to the university in July for the annual CSU Summer Arts program. The longtime CSU program relocated to CSUMB in the summer of 2012 for a five&#45;year run. The program includes a couple of dozen public events, including lectures, readings, concerts and theatrical productions – in other words, the area’s summer arts scene has gotten a lot more interesting.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Ilene Feinman
</p><h4>CSUMB goes green</h4><p>People across campus are working on many fronts to make Cal State Monterey Bay a more sustainable university. We developed a Climate Action Plan that will provide a road map for eliminating greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and Issues surrounding sustainability are addressed in many classes. We've also have a robust alternative transportation program in place. Mike Lerch, CSUMB's Manager of Energy and Utilities, can speak to the many energy efficiency upgrades on campus &#40;that have cut our energy use 20% and reduced our carbon footprint.
</p><p>Presented by Mike Lerch, CSUMB’s associate director of facilities services and operations
</p><h4>Art in the service of science</h4><p>Science illustration is all around us – in books, magazines, posters, on websites, in films and TV, and in museums. Most of us don’t notice the extraordinary technical skill, the precision and carefully observed detail, or the beauty of these illustrations because we’re busy absorbing information from them. CSUMB is home to a nationally renowned science illustration program; graduates’ work is in the Smithsonian Institution, the Los Angeles Museum of Natural History; in top science magazines such as National Geographic, Scientific American, Nature and Audubon; at the National Zoo, in Washington, D.C., and the Monterey Bay Aquarium.
</p><p>Presented by Jenny Keller
</p><h4>Athletics at CSUMB</h4><p>CSUMB is dedicated to building champions, one victory at a time &#45;&#45; in our community, in the classroom and in competition. The university fields 12 teams competing at the NCAA Division II level. It has earned a national title in men’s golf, and a number of California Collegiate Athletic Association titles.
</p><p>Presented by Kirby Garry, athletic director
</p><h4>Master of social work program meets local demand</h4><p>CSUMB now offers a Master of Social Work program, created in collaboration with community partners to address a shortage of social workers with graduate degrees in the region.
</p><p>Presented by Lisa Stewar
</p><h4>Family dynamics</h4><p>Dr. Rob Weisskirch, a professor of human development, can talk about a number of topics including:
</p><h4>Communicating online</h4><p>How do you present your business or yourself online? Liz MacDonald addresses how to develop a content strategy that works across websites, social media platforms and emerging technologies. The end result is clear, organized information that helps you reach your audiences, and helps your users make the most of the services you provide.
</p><p>Presented by Liz MacDonald, web user experience specialist
</p><h4>Developing business models for new ventures</h4><p>The focus of creating new businesses has changed from writing a business plan to creating a business model. This talk tells what it takes to develop a killer business model &#45; and how to do it.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Brad Barbeau
</p><h4>Funding for startups – the ABC's</h4><p>New opportunities for raising funding are emerging in online crowdfunding. When should a startup use angels, banks, and crowdfunding? This talk covers the latest developments in venture funding and where they fit into the founder's toolkit for fundraising.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Brad Barbeau
</p><h4>The current state of the economy</h4><p>A discussion of current economic data and its meaning for business.
</p><p>Presented by Dr. Brad Barbeau
</p><p>In case of local emergency, up-to-date information will be available to members of the CSUMB community by calling the public information phone line, 582-5044.

</p><p>For information on what to do in case of emergency, visit the <a href="https://csumb.edu/police/emergency&#45;management">Emergency Management</a> website.
</p><h2><a href='http://www.facebook.com/CSUMB'>Facebook</a></h2><p>"Like" us to keep up with campus news and events, ask questions, make comments, see photos and videos, and interact with CSUMB students, alumni, staff and faculty.</p><h2><a href='https://twitter.com/#!/csumb'>Twitter</a></h2><p>Follow us on Twitter to keep up with the campus buzz, 140 characters at a time. We post news and events, Q&amp;As, pics, links, community RTs and other fun stuff.</p><h2><a href='http://instagram.com/csumb'>Instagram</a></h2><p>Follow along and see what is happening on campus. Follow us on Instagram just search CSUMB.</p><h2><a href='https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCgds89PGe1OLf_n10bCyLrQ'>Youtube</a></h2><p>You'll find student interviews and testimonials and videos featuring our academic programs, campus life, events and more. If you like what you see, subscribe!</p><h2><a href='http://www.linkedin.com/company/csu-monterey-bay'>LinkedIn</a></h2><p>Check out our company profile to network with Otters. Join the <a href="http://www.linkedin.com/groups?gid=2258229&amp;trk=hb_side_g">group</a> to find job postings, career advice and other opportunities.</p><h2><a href='http://www.flickr.com/csumb'>Flickr</a></h2><p>Hundreds of photos of campus buildings, student life, special events and more. Need an image? Many of our pics are licensed through Creative Commons for public use, and if not, just ask us. Plus, share your CSUMB-related images in our group.</p><h2><a href='https://plus.google.com/b/116450431918642362289/116450431918642362289/posts'>Google+</a></h2><p>Add California State University, Monterey Bay to your Google+ circles. More news and events, campus pics, and social chatter among students and university folk.</p><p>Cal State Monterey Bay has an active and engaged faculty, staff and student body, and we love interactive ways to connect and share information online. The university encourages its faculty, staff and students to use tools such as social media to advance their work and heighten their experience as members of the campus community.
</p><p>In an effort to give direction when using social media, University Communications has developed the following guidelines. These guidelines are not intended for Internet activities that do not associate or identify a faculty or staff member with CSUMB, do not use CSUMB email addresses, do not discuss CSUMB and are purely about personal matters.
</p><h2>What is social media?</h2><p>We consider social media any technology tool or online space for integrating and sharing user&#45;generated content in order to engage in conversations. These guidelines do not attempt to name every current and emerging platform, but some examples are Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, YouTube and Instagram.
</p><h3>If you post/manage a social media account on behalf of Cal State Monterey Bay:</h3><p><strong>Be connected.</strong> If you have been authorized by your supervisor to create a CSUMB social media site or a video for posting in locations such as YouTube, please contact University Communications for an approved logo and other images and to ensure coordination with other CSUMB sites and content. Social media channels are not considered official unless they are developed or authorized by University Communications, which maintains and publicizes a list of all official university social media channels.
</p><p>As the administrator of a CSUMB social media channel, you accept the responsibility for maintaining current and accurate content and monitoring and moderating posts to that channel, including deleting comments and posts that do not meet the criteria set forth in these guidelines.
</p><p><strong>Be respectful.</strong> As a CSUMB employee or representative, you should be mindful of the university’s public mission as a forum for thoughtful discussion of opposing ideas. Some online communities can be volatile, tempting users to behave in ways they otherwise wouldn’t. Your reputation, and CSUMB's, are best served when you remain above the fray.
</p><p><strong>Be responsive.</strong> If a question or comment is directed toward you via your social media site or page, you should do your best to reply in a timely and appropriate fashion. If the comment is a complaint or critique, follow these tips to resolve the situation: <a href="http://www.socialmediaexaminer.com/7&#45;tips&#45;for&#45;dealing&#45;with&#45;upset&#45;facebook&#45;fans/">http://www.socialmediaexaminer.com/7&#45;tips&#45;for&#45;dealing&#45;with&#45;upset&#45;faceboo...</a>
</p><p><strong>Be transparent.</strong> If you participate in or maintain a social media site on behalf of the university, clearly state your role and goals. Discuss with your supervisor when you are empowered to respond directly to users and when you may need approval.
</p><p><strong>Be thoughtful.</strong> Before you jump into a discussion thread or respond to a posting, think about the implications. Will your response stimulate positive discussion, provide new information or insight, or inflame? If you have any questions about whether it’s appropriate to enter into a social media discussion or write about certain kinds of material in your role as a CSUMB employee, ask your supervisor before you post or contact University Communications.
</p><p><strong>Know the rules.</strong> Comply with FERPA, the CSUMB honor code and policies related to Conflict of Interest, Privacy, Security, Safety, Intellectual Property, Computing and Technology Resources, and Human Resources. Become familiar with the terms of service and policies of sites and networks in which you participate. Pay attention to updates. If the legal language is hard to follow, follow a respected blogger or two who discuss service changes in their posts.
</p><p>You are responsible for gaining the expressed consent of all involved parties for the right to distribution or publication of recordings, photos, images, video, text, slideshow presentations, artwork and advertisements whether those rights are purchased or obtained without compensation.
</p><p><strong>Keep your personal views separate</strong>. Uphold the university’s mission and values in your activities. Don’t include political or personal comments. This includes changes to your photo or avatar in relation to political or social issues. Do not use CSUMB's name to promote or endorse any product, cause, or political party or candidate.
</p><h3>Personal site guidelines</h3><p><strong>Be authentic</strong>. Be honest about your identity. In personal posts, you may identify yourself as a CSUMB faculty or staff member, but please be clear that you are sharing your personal views, not representing CSUMB. This parallels media relations practices at CSUMB.
</p><p>A common practice among individuals who write about the industry in which they work is to include a disclaimer on their site, usually on their “About Me” page. If you discuss higher education on your own social media site, we suggest you include a sentence similar to this: “The views expressed on this &#91;blog, Web site&#93; are mine alone and do not necessarily reflect the views of CSUMB.”
</p><p><strong>Don’t be a mole.</strong> Never pretend to be someone else and post about CSUMB. Tracking tools enable supposedly anonymous posts to be traced back to their authors. There have been several high&#45;profile and embarrassing cases of company executives anonymously posting about their own organizations.
</p><p><strong>Take the high ground.</strong> If you identify your affiliation with CSUMB in your comments, readers will associate you with the university, even with the disclaimer that your views are your own. Remember that you’re most likely to build a high&#45;quality following if you discuss ideas and situations civilly.
</p><p><strong>Be aware of liability.</strong> You are legally liable for what you post on your own site and on the sites of others. Follow the same CSUMB honor code, FERPA, Conflict of Interest Policy, Privacy and general civil behavior guidelines cited above including respecting copyrights and disclosures, and not revealing proprietary financial, intellectual property or similar sensitive or private content. Individual bloggers have been held liable for commentary deemed to be proprietary, copyrighted, defamatory, libelous or obscene &#40;as defined by the courts&#41;.
</p><p><strong>Remember that all content contributed on all platforms becomes immediately searchable and can be immediately shared.</strong> This content leaves the contributing individual faculty/staff/students members’ control forever. Employers are increasingly conducting Web searches on job candidates before extending offers. Be sure that what you post today will not come back to haunt you.
</p><p><strong>Follow a code of ethics.</strong> There are numerous codes of ethics for bloggers and other active participants in social media, all of which will help you participate responsibly in online communities. If you have your own social media site, you may wish to post your own code of ethics or adapt an existing code already on the Web. Monitor comments. Most people who maintain social media sites welcome comments; it builds credibility and community. However, you can set your site so that you can review and approve comments before they appear. This allows you to respond to comments in a timely way. It also allows you to delete spam comments and to block any individuals who repeatedly post offensive or frivolous comments.
</p><p><strong>Share and link back.</strong> Please share content posted on official CSUMB social media channels across your personal networks, and link back from your site to CSUMB.EDU. By virtue of self identifying as part of CSUMB in such a network, faculty/staff/students connect themselves to, and reflect upon, the university.
</p><h4>Learn about the Master&#039;s of Public Policy program at Nov. 7 open house</h4><p>Applications are being accepted for the Master's in Public Policy program at California State University, Monterey Bay.
</p><p>The MPP program is a partnership between the university's Department of Health, Human Services and Public Policy and the Leon and Sylvia Panetta Institute for Public Policy. Application deadline is March 1, 2008 for the class that starts next fall. Classes are small, interactive, academically rigorous and professionally focused.
</p><p>To learn more about the program, the public is invited to an open house on Wednesday, Nov. 7 from 5:30 to 7:30 in the Alumni and Visitors Center on campus. Mr. Panetta will be on hand, schedule permitting, to talk about the importance of the program.
</p><p>Courses are offered in the evenings to encourage working professionals to attend. Among the courses offered are: -Congressional and Presidential Politics and Policy -Separate courses on Budget Policy, Health Policy and Social Policy -Money, Media and Influence in Policymaking Environments -Policy Analysis and Public Action in Diverse Communities -Collaborative Leadership and Ethical Policymaking
</p><p>Students currently enrolled in the program come from the management ranks of local governments, educational institutions and non-profit organizations; the broad range of professional backgrounds creates a dynamic learning environment.
</p><p>For more information about the Master's of Public Policy program, visit the web at <a href="http://csumb.edu/mpp;" title="http://csumb.edu/mpp;">http://csumb.edu/mpp;</a> to receive an application packet, call (831) 582-3565 or e-mail <a href="&#x6d;&#97;&#x69;&#x6c;&#116;&#x6f;&#58;&#109;&#x70;&#112;&#64;&#x63;&#115;&#117;&#x6d;&#98;.&#x65;&#100;&#x75;">mpp@csumb.edu</a>
</p><p>Tony Boles has joined California State University, Monterey Bay as associate vice president of Campus Development and Operations.
</p><p>He will oversee campus master planning and building space management, all campus design and construction services, environmental protection and facilities maintenance.
</p><p>" I see coming to the CSU MB as a great opportunity to be part of the growth and development of a new and exciting campus in one of the most beautiful places in the world," Mr. Boles said.
</p><p>He brings 25 years experience in all phases of architectural design work, planning and construction project development for a wide range of private- and public-sector facilities. He comes from Gafcon Construction and Project Management, where he managed the development of a $1.1 billion, 1,700-acre park project in Irvine.
</p><p>Earlier, he was senior deputy director/county architect for the County of San Diego, where he managed the capital improvement and master planning programs. He also served as associate director and construction administrator at San Diego State University, where he oversaw more than $50 million in campus improvement projects.
</p><p>Mr. Boles served in the U. S. Navy's Civil Engineer Corps, where he directed major construction projects throughout the world. He completed his Navy career as the base closure manager for the Marine Corps air stations in El Toro and Tustin.
</p><p>He holds bachelor's and master's degrees in architecture from Cal Poly Pomona and also earned a master's degree in city and regional planning from San Diego State University. He is a registered architect in California.
</p><p>Mr. Boles joined the university on Oct. 18. He replaces Niraj Dangoria, who left CSUMB earlier this year to become assistant dean, facilities planning and management, at Stanford University.
</p><p>Location, location, location.
</p><p>The real estate agents’ mantra may also explain the next undergraduate major to be added to the curriculum at Cal State Monterey Bay.
</p><p>It is location that attracted Elyssa Farmer, a freshman from Pacifica.
</p><p>“As a 10-year-old, I fell in love with the Monterey Bay Aquarium and wanted to become a marine biologist just like the ones at the aquarium,” she said. When it came time to choose a college, she decided on CSUMB because “it’s located next to one of the richest marine regions in the world. Because of that, I figured it would be sensible to study it here.”
</p><p>As faculty member Bill Head, a professor in the Division of Science and Environmental Policy, points out, “When you think of Monterey Bay, you think of marine science.
</p><p>“We have a more concentrated number of marine science institutions here than anywhere in the country.”
</p><p>Marine science has been part of the curriculum almost since the beginning of the university, offered as a concentration called “marine and coastal ecology” within the Environmental Science, Technology and Policy degree program. Courses have been added over the years, including a scientific diving program that was introduced last spring. It filled up in a day-and-a-half.
</p><h5>A new degree is born</h5><p>As soon as the approval process is completed, that concentration – which has by far the largest enrollment of the five available in the ESTP major – will be renamed “marine science” and elevated to a separate program, leading to a bachelor of science degree.
</p><p>Elevating the popular program to degree status meets student demand for a degree with a more recognizable name and serves to make the program more visible and attractive to prospective students.
</p><p>“Our job is to present students with a suite of opportunities,” said Dr. James Lindholm, the Rote Distinguished Professor of Marine Science and Policy. “It’s the Field of Dreams approach – create it and they will come.”
</p><p>And it meets the needs of employers.
</p><p>“Employer surveys show a demand for graduates who can address real-world, interdisciplinary problems and have good technical skills,” said Dr. Marsha Moroh, dean of the College of Science.
</p><p>An important part of the program is the hands-on experience students get with advanced technologies for collecting, analyzing and communicating scientific data.
</p><h5>Hands-on experience</h5><p>Students get that hands-on experience in the laboratory and through fieldwork, often working alongside professors on real-world research projects. Teaching and mentoring are at the heart of the experience.
</p><p>“We give students training in geographic information systems (GIS), remote sensing and seafloor mapping,” Dr. Lindholm said.
</p><p>A prolific researcher, he involves students – undergraduates as well as graduate students in the Coastal and Watershed Science and Policy program – in much of his work.
</p><p>Since joining the faculty at CSUMB in 2007, Dr. Lindholm has established the Institute for Applied Marine Ecology. The goal of the institute is to understand the interaction of marine ecological systems and human activities.
</p><p>Among the institute’s many projects is one surveying deep-water habitats in the newly created marine protected areas along California’s north central coast ­– from San Mateo County north to Mendocino County, using a remotely operated vehicle. The information gathered will serve as the foundation of a program to evaluate the status of fish, invertebrates and their seafloor habitats inside and outside the new MPAs.
</p><p>Another project involves collecting video and photos that help to explore, describe and catalogue the resources of the Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary.
</p><p>He’s also researching the recovery of seafloor habitats off Morro Bay and the Gulf of Maine following the cessation of trawling.
</p><h5>Ten days in an undersea laboratory</h5><p>Perhaps the project with the highest visibility is Dr. Lindholm’s work with Aquarius, the world’s only underwater laboratory.
</p><p>In 2008, he led a mission that studied the movement and behavior of coral reef fish off Key Largo in the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary. Dr. Lindholm supported the mission from the surface, but three CSUMB graduate students spent 10 days in the lab, 60 feet below the sea surface.
</p><p>He returned in October to lead Aquarius 2010: If Reefs Could Talk, a mission designed to educate the public so they can make informed decisions about how their actions impact the world’s most important resource – the ocean.
</p><p>Dr. Lindholm and a graduate student lived in the laboratory, which he says is similar to the International Space Station in size and functionality. Two students worked from the surface, and two more were “ambassadors” for the program, working with Monterey County schools that showed live broadcasts from the lab.
</p><p>Qualifying for the mission isn't easy. The physical requirements are similar to what potential astronauts face. All participants have to be experienced divers with research and rescue certifications.
</p><p>"This is truly a remarkable opportunity for these students," Dr. Lindholm said. "What they are going to experience is extraordinary."
</p><h5>Students work on seafloor mapping</h5><p>Other opportunities – and jobs – are available to students through the university’s Seafloor Mapping Lab.
</p><p>Supported through grant and contract work, the Seafloor Mapping Lab conducts marine habitat survey work from the Arctic to the Antarctic. The lab has been instrumental in the ongoing California Seafloor Mapping Project, an effort to create the first comprehensive, high-resolution map of California's state waters – from the shoreline out three nautical miles.
</p><p>The project involves industry, resource management agencies and universities. Final products will include a series of maps showing the seafloor and coastal geology in unprecedented detail.
</p><p>“We know more about the surface of Mars than the three-mile strip of state waters along our coast,” Dr. Kvitek said. “If the goal is to protect and sustainably manage our marine resources, we don’t have the tools to do it without that basic map. You can see everything down to the size of a lawn chair, and you can look for changes year after year.”
</p><p>Dr. Kvitek’s work has been featured on the Discovery Channel and in National Geographic magazine, among other publications.
</p><p>These opportunities to do hands-on research appeal to students.
</p><p>“I chose CSUMB because the fieldwork with the marine program is a big part of it, and I like working outside, with people,” said Jazmyn Julius, a freshman from Santa Maria.
</p><p>Katie Wrubel can tell Jazmyn about that.
</p><p>Wrubel, a 2010 graduate of the ESTP program, spent the summer working with the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife. The 10-week program was identified by CSUMB’s Undergraduate Research Opportunities Center and sponsored by Oregon State University.
</p><p>She’s now pursuing a Ph.D. in environmental science at Washington State University in Vancouver.
</p><p>“The people I met are the best part,” Wrubel told OSU. “The marine science world is so small and it seems that everyone knows everyone, so joining that circle has opened so many doors for me.”
</p><p>AT A GLANCE
</p><p>Currently, more than half of the 300 Environmental Science, Technology and Policy majors at Cal State Monterey  Bay and about 30 percent of the 400 biology majors are pursuing marine-related concentrations.
</p><p>No other school in the 23-campus California State University system offers a B.S. in marine science. Pending approval, the degree is scheduled to be offered at CSUMB in the fall of 2012.
</p><p>Marine scientists deal with a variety of issues ­– from climate change, declining fisheries and eroding coastlines to the invention of new technologies to explore the sea.
</p><p>According to NOAA, there’s a huge potential for growth in the field as researchers learn more about the ocean and its interactions with the land and atmosphere, how humans affect the ocean, and the impact of ocean resources on our quality of life.
</p><p>President Dianne Harrison urged faculty and staff of Cal State Monterey Bay to answer a call to service and excellence for the university and its students in her annual State of the University address in August.
</p><p>“… In spite of the still-sluggish economy and the unresolved state budget, I have never been so proud of our entire university or felt more confident of its continued progress,” she said.
</p><p>Dr. Harrison pointed out the positive response the university has received from the organization reviewing its application for re-accreditation. “California State University, Monterey Bay has turned an important corner from its formative years and is maturing as a comprehensive university for the 21st century,” she said.
</p><p>More than 1,100 new students – freshmen and transfers – attended campus orientation sessions during the summer. But Dr. Harrison reminded her audience that more than 3,200 qualified applicants had to be turned away because of a budget-imposed cap on enrollment.
</p><p>The new students, she pointed out, “come with high expectations, and they are counting on us to help them achieve their goals – regardless of the state budget.”
</p><p>Money will continue to be tight for years to come, she said. “A scarcity of public dollars has become the new normal.”
</p><p>But Dr. Harrison quickly moved beyond money to talk about a few of the university's recent accomplishments.
</p><p>The biology, psychology, kinesiology, business, math and computer science majors have clearly resonated with students. And so does the new Master of Social Work program, which started its first class with approximately 40 students.
</p><p>“We will not be stymied by state budgets or be satisfied to simply ride out the storm,” Dr. Harrison said. “Together we will continue to innovate and be leaders in our disciplines and services and in higher education.”
</p><p>The number of CSUMB students from the tri-county area increased in Fall 2010. Residents of Monterey, Santa Cruz and San Benito counties now make up 33 percent of enrollment, compared with 31 percent last year. Northern California and Southern California each supply approximately another third of students.
</p><p>Total enrollment is 4,790 this semester, including 829 freshmen and 490 new transfer students. This year’s incoming class has a grade-point average of 3.25, up slightly from last year.  
</p><p>Marina Mayor Bruce Delgado presented a ceremonial key to the city to President Dianne Harrison as part of Otter Fest 2010, the city’s welcome-back event for students held Aug. 29, the first Sunday of the fall semester.
</p><p>Prior to the event, Delgado told the City Council, Marina “wants them, loves them and needs them,” referring to students and the potential boon they represent to the city. Otter Fest included extended hours at the weekly farmers market, food, cooking and gardening demonstrations, live music from a trio of bands, and a business promotion with “Otter Fest passports” and prizes designed to get students into many of the city’s businesses.  
</p><p>Cal State Monterey Bay is one of the most racially diverse schools in its category, according to U.S. News &amp; World Report in the 2011 edition of America’s Best Colleges.
</p><p>CSUMB is tied with Amherst College at No. 11 on the magazine’s “diversity index” among national liberal arts colleges – schools that award at least half their degrees in the fields of liberal arts. Approximately 265 colleges and universities are in the category. The “diversity index” factors in the total proportion of minority students and the overall mix of groups. The information is drawn from each school’s 2009-10 student body.
</p><p>CSUMB also was a leader in the U.S. News category of least debt owed by students. Members of the class of 2009 who borrowed money had an average debt of $15,254.
</p><p>Washington Monthly magazine rated CSUMB highly, as well.
</p><p>The university ranked second among the nation’s public liberal arts colleges in its contribution to the public good, according to the magazine’s 2010 College Guide.
</p><p>The Washington Monthly rates schools based on: recruitment and graduation of low-income students; cutting-edge scholarship and Ph.D.s; and students who give back to their communities.  
</p>
