---
slug: may-14-2008
title: "May 14, 2008"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p><strong>Txt Msgs Alert U</strong>&#42;<strong>Cell phones transmit safety alerts at CSUMB</strong>&#42;? Cell phones &#45; a convenient way to send greetings to friends and family via text messages &#45; have been transformed into campus communications vehicles. At CSUMB, the service is called &#45; what else? &#45; OTTERalert. They blast out campus&#45;wide security and emergency communication alarms &#45; a service that has been getting a lot of attention since the tragic shootings at Virginia Tech.The campus community can rest assured that OTTERalert is for emergency alerts only; those who sign up will not receive spam. Privacy is protected, and only campus administrators and members of the University Police Department can originate the messages. <a href="http://news.csumb.edu/site/x20695.xml%20">Read more about OTTERalert.</a>
</p><p>Our campus is under construction. Please be cautious around construction areas. We invite you to view this <a href="http://cdo.csumb.edu/site/x4929.xml%20">short slide show</a> created with your safety in mind.
</p><p><strong>A Battle of Wills &#45; What happens when a gift no longer serves the mission of an institution?</strong>. . . Steve Weldon, director of planned giving at California State University, Monterey Bay, says he recently negotiated a $2.5 million gift for a reading center that entailed a 34&#45;page donor agreement put together by the donor, the donor's lawyer, a faculty member, the university's lawyer and Weldon himself. "The expectations are detailed and clear for everybody," he says.&#45; &#42;Current magazine&#42;, May/June 2008
</p><p><strong>Etchings named CSUMB's top athlete &#45; Softball team closes season with 4&#45;2 loss</strong>California State University, Monterey Bay women's volleyball player Brittany Etchings was named the school's Outstanding Senior Scholar Athlete of 2008 on Thursday. Etchings, a former standout at Poway High School, finished her CSUMB career as the leader in kills &#40;1,343&#41; and digs &#40;1,361&#41; and second all&#45;time in aces with 125. . . She finished her major in telecommunications, multimedia and applied computing with a 3.67 GPA.&#45; &#42;The Salinas Californian&#42;, May 9, 2008
</p><p><strong>Spicy with Sideburns &#45; El Vez is part Weird Al, part Elvis, and all entertainment</strong>The self&#45;proclaimed Mexican Elvis, El Vez, is much more than just an impersonator doing rewrites of the King's most popular songs in Spanish. The performer behind "You Ain't Nothing But a Chihuahua," his take on "Hound Dog," also teaches Mexican&#45;American history with the backing of a fiery rock band on numbers including "Cesar Chavez '96" and comes on like a savvier, more politically minded "Weird Al" Yankovic on sly remakes of pop songs like his version of Wall of Voodoo's 1982 hit "Mexican Radio."&#45; &#42;Monterey County Weekly&#42;, May 8, 2008
</p><p><strong>BROWN &amp; PROUD &#45; El Vez, the 'Mexican Elvis,' brings his wild 'El Vez for Prez' show to Cal State Monterey Bay</strong>Appropriating a gringo icon to celebrate Chicano culture is just one of the many over&#45;the&#45;top quirks of El Vez, the Mexican Elvis. There's also the flashy wardrobe and greasy pompadour, channeling Elvis Presley's Las Vegas&#45;era lounge act. There are the female back&#45;up dancers, the El Vettes, appropriately named Priscilia, Gladysita, Lisa Maria and Que Linda Thompson.&#45; &#42;Monterey Herald&#42;, May 8, 2008
</p><p><strong>'Wreck Ord Live' festival celebrates release of CD</strong>For five years, Cal State Monterey Bay students have compiled their music on one disc to showcase the talent entrenched on the university's converted Army base campus. With "Wreck Ord Live," the mission is accomplished yet again. To celebrate, students who produced the album are throwing an outdoor jam. The "Wreck Ord Live" Music Festival takes place Saturday in the parking lot of the CSUMB Music Hall.&#45; &#42;Monterey Herald&#42;, May 8, 2008
</p><p><strong>CSUMB men in second in regional</strong>Four Cal State Monterey Bay golfers shot par or better Tuesday and the Otters jumped from fourth to second place, four strokes ahead of Western Washington University at the NCAA Division II Men's West Regional at the Adobe Creek Golf Club in Petaluma.&#45; &#42;Monterey Herald&#42;, May 7, 2008
</p><p><strong>CSUMB among best places to work</strong>California State University, Monterey Bay has been named among the Best Places to Work in Monterey County by the Monterey County Business Council. Personal Dynamics Consulting of Florida designed a 40&#45;question survey used to identify the top employers.&#45; &#42;The Salinas Californian&#42;, May 7, 2008
</p><p><strong>Economy worries students</strong>Sergio Barajas, 21, is graduating this month from California State University, Monterey Bay. But Barajas is worried about not yet having a job. He's not alone. Finding a good&#45;paying, quality job is the biggest worry among college students, according to this year's nationwide survey of U.S. campuses by the CSUMB&#45;based Panetta Institute. . . "I'm enrolling into a one&#45;year teacher credential program," Barajas said. "I'm optimistic. I hope by the time I'm done with the program, I'll be able to find a job."&#45; &#42;The Salinas Californian&#42;, May 3, 2008
</p><p><strong>Programa de CSUMB lanza carreras de postgrado</strong>Con la ayuda de casi $1 millón de dólares la subvención federal de 4 años, McNair, la Universidad de California en la Bahía de Monterey está preparando a 25 talentosos estudiantes para que obtengan su doctorado en otras instituciones.&#45; &#42;El Sol&#42;, May 3, 2008
</p><p><strong>CSUMB softball opens playoffs with victory</strong>ARCATA &#45; The CSU Monterey Bay softball team defeated Humboldt State 5&#45;0 in its first game of the 2008 CCAA softball championships. Humboldt State was ranked sixth in the nation. CSUMB &#40;35&#45;22&#41; plays CSU Stanislaus in the second round of the championships game. Thursday, the Otters were powered by the pitching of Angela Cabral and a three&#45;run homer by Homa Shafii.&#45; &#42;Monterey Herald&#42;, May 2, 2008
</p><p><strong>For campus news, activities and events, please visit our</strong> <a href="http://www.csumb.edu/news%20">news website</a><strong>.</strong>
</p>
