---
slug: milestone-marked-in-gambord-building-construction
title: "Milestone marked in Gambord building construction"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>At an informal gathering on June 12, CSU Monterey Bay staff members were joined by representatives of the architect and contractor to sign a beam that will be used in construction of the Business and Information Technology building. The beam was covered in white material to accommodate the signatures. It will be used in a “topping off” ceremony, an event that marks the placement of the highest beam in the building, tentatively scheduled for June 20. The $43 million, 58,000-square-foot structure is on schedule to open in the fall of 2015. The technology-rich building, located next to the Tanimura &amp; Antle library, will have eight classrooms, 12 labs, offices, conference rooms and student study areas. Sustainability strategies are incorporated into the design. Spaces are organized to ensure learning environments and staff areas receive natural light; storm water runoff will be contained on site; water conserving plumbing fixtures will be used; and heat-producing direct sunlight kept to a minimum with the exterior screen wall. The building has been designed to LEED Gold standards. <a href="http://media.csumb.edu/bitcam/">View the construction site webcam</a></p><p><em>Above: Dr. Shyam Kamath, dean of the College of Business, signs the beam. Photo by Leslie Kavasch Below: Rendering of the Business and Information Technology Building, set to open in fall 2015</em></p>
