---
slug: mpp-2007
title: "MPP 2007"
date: January 01 2020
---

<h4>Learn about the Master&#039;s of Public Policy program at Nov. 7 open house</h4><p>Applications are being accepted for the Master's in Public Policy program at California State University, Monterey Bay.
</p><p>The MPP program is a partnership between the university's Department of Health, Human Services and Public Policy and the Leon and Sylvia Panetta Institute for Public Policy. Application deadline is March 1, 2008 for the class that starts next fall. Classes are small, interactive, academically rigorous and professionally focused.
</p><p>To learn more about the program, the public is invited to an open house on Wednesday, Nov. 7 from 5:30 to 7:30 in the Alumni and Visitors Center on campus. Mr. Panetta will be on hand, schedule permitting, to talk about the importance of the program.
</p><p>Courses are offered in the evenings to encourage working professionals to attend. Among the courses offered are: -Congressional and Presidential Politics and Policy -Separate courses on Budget Policy, Health Policy and Social Policy -Money, Media and Influence in Policymaking Environments -Policy Analysis and Public Action in Diverse Communities -Collaborative Leadership and Ethical Policymaking
</p><p>Students currently enrolled in the program come from the management ranks of local governments, educational institutions and non-profit organizations; the broad range of professional backgrounds creates a dynamic learning environment.
</p><p>For more information about the Master's of Public Policy program, visit the web at <a href="http://csumb.edu/mpp;" title="http://csumb.edu/mpp;">http://csumb.edu/mpp;</a> to receive an application packet, call (831) 582-3565 or e-mail <a href="&#x6d;&#97;&#x69;&#x6c;&#116;&#x6f;&#58;&#109;&#x70;&#112;&#64;&#x63;&#115;&#117;&#x6d;&#98;.&#x65;&#100;&#x75;">mpp@csumb.edu</a>
</p>
