---
slug: new-student-government-officers-inaugurated
title: "New student government officers inaugurated"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>The gavel has been passed. Duane Lindsay was sworn in as the 2012-13 Associated Students president on April 30, along with 12 other newly elected student government officers. CSU Monterey Bay President Dianne Harrison administered the oath of office at a luncheon in the Alumni and Visitors Center attended by administrators, faculty and staff members and students. Dr. Harrison reminded the officers that they are the official voice of the students. “You have a tremendous responsibility,” she said. “Your work is hard. Students don’t agree, but as a representative, you have to reach out and get the pulse of the students you represent.” She went on to remind them that a large part of their job is to get other students involved. The new slate of officers has already made a start on that. They helped motivate 33 percent of students to cast votes – the second highest turnout among the 23-campus California State University system. Lindsay wasted no time laying out his agenda for the coming year. Among his goals: continue to improve campus spirit; complete a five-year plan for AS; work on retention and recruitment of student leadership; and help with implementation of the Otter Model, the new general education curriculum that will be implemented in the fall. Outgoing president Caliah Hill, a Human Communication major who will graduate in May, presented certificates of appreciation to the officers whose terms are ending, and announced three new awards: • Outstanding AS officer of the year, presented to Dalton Tucker • AS advocate of the year, presented to Travis Nelson • Outstanding chair of a committee or board, presented to Tawni Luczo “This has been a tremendous year,” Hill said. “We had peaks and valleys, but we found a way to come together and make progress for our campus. We faced all the challenges as a team.” Three “Golden Otters” – people who “stepped up to help us,” Hill said, were recognized: Tim Bills, director of student activities and leadership development; Dr. Christine Erickson, dean of students; and Andy Klingelhoefer, judicial affairs officer. Next year's officers: • President: Duane Lindsay • Vice President: Olivia Carnahan? • Chief Financial Officer: Ana Angeles? • Chief Communications Officer: Michelle Ferrari • Programming Chair: Jose Villalba • Cultural Enrichment Senator: Margaret Chou • Senators at Large: James Pickerrel, Purvi Shah • Chief Legislative Officer: Adam Napoletano? • College of University Studies and Programs: Kendra Haugh • College of Science Senator: R.J. Basram • Environmental Senator: Colleen Courtney • Athletics Senator: Courtney Ranger <em>Photo (left to right): Incoming AS Vice President Olivia Carnahan, CSUMB President Dianne Harrison, incoming AS President Duane Lindsay</em>
</p><p><em> </em>
</p>
