---
slug: october-24-2007
title: "October 24, 2007"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p><strong>Txt Msgs Alert U</strong>&#42;<strong>Cell phones transmit safety alerts at CSUMB</strong> &#42;Cell phones &#45;&#45; a convenient way to send greetings to friends and family via text messages &#45; have been transformed into campus communications vehicles. At CSUMB, the service is called &#45;&#45; what else? &#45; OTTERalert. They blast out campus&#45;wide security and emergency communication alarms &#45; a service that has been getting a lot of attention since the tragic shootings at Virginia Tech. The campus community can rest assured that OTTERalert is for emergency alerts only; those who sign up will not receive spam. Privacy is protected, and only campus administrators and members of the University Police Department can originate the messages. <a href="http://news.csumb.edu/site/x20695.xml%20">Read more about OTTERalert here</a>.
</p><p><strong>CSUMB student interning in Washington</strong> Christy Cozby is one of 24 interns from the Panetta Institute who is spending two and a half months working in Washington, D.C. As part of her internship, she will attend seminars on government policy, economics, foreign affairs and defense resources. <strong>Bright Idea CSUMB to give away energy&#45;efficient light bulbs Oct. 25</strong>    CSUMB and Pacific Gas &amp; Electric think you can change the world by changing a light bulb. And the public is invited to participate. The university and the company have partnered to join the Energy Star Change a Light, Change the World Campaign, a movement to encourage people to help make a difference one energy&#45;saving step at a time. From noon to 6 p.m.on Oct. 25, students will join a representative from PG&amp;E to distribute 1,000 compact fluorescent light bulbs &#40;CFLs&#41; to the public. The student Environmental Committee, led by Associated Students Environmental Senator Mary Berube, is organizing the event. <a href="http://news.csumb.edu/site/x20682.xml">Read more about this energy&#45;saving initiative.</a>
</p><p><strong>Library displays student art</strong> Work by students in VPA 347 &#45; Chicana/o Black Art, taught by Dr. Amalia Mesa&#45;Bains and Professor Stephanie A. Johnson, is on display in the CSUMB library. Based on the Spanish Castas paintings of the 17th and 18th centuries which categorized the mestizaje or "mixed race" people into socially stratified positions, the students' "remix" focuses on narratives of familial legacy, ancestral exploration and personal cross&#45;cultural negotiation. Using the original paintings as a background with strategic alteration and addition of elements, these modern pieces counter the divisions, legal inequities, and fears promoted by the historical Castas paintings. The students developed their own narratives and reflections of hope in the new Castas images. The work will be on display through Nov. 26.
</p><p><strong>TAT alum's new film hits theaters</strong> David Kashevaroff' is back in the news with the release of "Golda's Balcony," a film on the life and conscience of Golda Meir, Israel's fourth prime minister. The film was adapted by William Gibson from his Broadway play of the same name. The film, edited by David, opened recently in New York and is currently playing in Los Angeles. Read the <a href="http://www.goldasbalconythefilm.com/index.html">review</a> in the Oct. 10 edition of the New York Times. A 2001 graduate, David was part of a team that won the Oscar for best documentary short for "A Note of Triumph: The Golden Age of Norman Corwin," a story about the historic radio program run by Corwin, a broadcaster and poet during World War II. <a href="http://csumb.edu/site/x15529.xml">Learn more about David Kashevaroff here</a>.
</p><p><strong>CSUMB celebrates National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week</strong> NCAA Week is a national campaign promoted by the Boosting Alcohol Consciousness Concerning the Health of University Students &#40;BACCHUS&#41; Network. Its mission is to promote alcohol awareness on more than 900 college campuses across the United States. NCAAW strives to provide students with alternatives to alcohol and to educate them on the personal choice of responsible alcohol use. View the <a href="http://activities.csumb.edu/site/x20677.xml">calendar</a> of events at CSUMB.
</p><p><strong>New member of the Administration and Finance team</strong>Tony Boles has joined the campus as associate vice president for campus development and operations. He has a diverse background covering every aspect of planning and construction from acquisition to design, construction, operations and maintenance, and renewal and disposal of facilities and property. Tony has extensive experience working in a wide variety of public and private sectors, including the U.S. Navy Civil Engineer Corps, finishing his career as the Base Close Manager for MCAS El Toro and Tustin. His experience also includes the management of county and state master plan and capital improvement programs at San Diego State, County of San Diego and the City of San Diego. He earned a master's in architecture at Cal Poly Pomono and a master's in public administration at San Diego State. He will oversee campus planning and space management, design and construction, and facilities services and operations.
</p><p><strong>Joe Cardinalli returns to World Theater</strong> Joe Cardinalli has been named interim director of the World Theater. He joins the World Theater team after a distinguished career with the City of San Jose in a variety of capacities. Joe is a designer, technical theater consultant, television field director and a musician. He currently is a faculty member at Gavilan College in Gilroy and is a board member of El Theatro Campesino in San Juan Bautista. And he's no stranger to CSUMB &#45; he was a member of the faculty when the Teledramatic Arts and Technology Department was formed. Joe is looking forward to bringing his administrative and managerial skills combined with his experience in theater to the ongoing integration of the World Theater and the academic programs involving the performing arts.
</p><p><strong>Eye of an artist, heart of an activist</strong> The Visiting Artist Series presents the internationally acclaimed artist Carrie Mae Weems in an evening of art, culture and politics on Oct. 24. Her presentation gets under way at 7 p.m. in the World Theater. Ms. Weems &#40;pictured at left&#41; is one of the most important artists working today. Her work in photography, video and installation examines the history of culture, gender and race within American society. She uses narrative elements in her photography to examine class and gender issues through the window of personal experience and African&#45;American heritage. "Her work is foundational in the construction of identities; they're pivotal pieces in African&#45;American life in the United States,"  says Dr. Amalie Mesa&#45;Bains. My responsibility as an artist is to work, to sing for my supper, to make art, beautiful and powerful, that adds and reveals; to beautify the mess of a messy world, to heal the sick and feed the helpless; to shout bravely from the rooftops and storm barricaded doors and voice the specificity of our historical moment.. &#45; Carrie Mae Weems
</p><p><strong>Wednesday, Oct. 24</strong>: Soccer vs. San Francisco State, women's match at 12:30 p.m., men's match at 3 p.m., Otter soccer field <strong>Wednesday, Oct. 24</strong>: The Visiting Artist series continues with A Photographer's Vision: An Evening with Carrie Mae Weems, 7 p.m., World Theater.<strong>Thursday, Oct. 25</strong>: Compact fluorescent light bulbs &#40;CFLs&#41; will be given away from noon to 6 p.m. on the quad.<strong>Tuesday, Oct. 30</strong>: Volleyball vs. Notre Dame de Namur, 7 p.m., Sports Center <strong>Thursday, Nov. 1</strong>: Day of the Dead celebration, 6 p.m., in the University Center ballroom.
</p><p>A reminder: Fourth Avenue &#40;the street behind the Alumni and Visitors Center&#41; between Divarty Street and Inter&#45;Garrison Road is ONE WAY southbound. There are no plans to make the street two&#45;way, even during the construction work in the area. It's a safety issue ? the street is too narrow to safely accommodate two&#45;way traffic and parking. Third Avenue is closed to through traffic from Inter&#45;Garrison Road to Divarty Street while five wooden structures along Third are coming down. Access to the Outdoor Recreation Center, the Child Development Center and parking lot 84 will be available only from Inter&#45;Garrison. The work is expected to be completed in late October. Fifth Avenue is closed to traffic.
</p><p>Divarty Street between Fourth Avenue and Gen. Jim Moore Boulevard is open to westbound traffic only. Divarty remains closed from Fourth east to the site of the new library. Traffic traveling north on Engineer Lane will be able to access the Human Resources Building, and Parking Lots 21 and 23. Traffic can access the lots by turning off Gen. Jim Moore onto the small road just south of Divarty Street, adjacent to the Veterans Clinic. This road connects to Engineer Lane and to the entrance to Parking Lot 23. Parking Lot 21 will be accessed via a newly constructed entrance at the southwest corner of Parking Lot 23. Our campus is under construction. Please be cautious around construction areas.  We invite you to view this short <a href="http://cdo.csumb.edu/site/x4929.xml">slide show</a> created with your safety in mind.
</p><p><strong>Moss****Landing scientist surfaces with kelp forest discovery &#45;&#45; Students from CSUMB among research team</strong> Deep in the tropics, a Moss Landing scientist endured a seemingly endless string of mishaps &#45; including broken equipment, a lost anchor and a cut&#45;off water supply &#45; but discovered a marine biologist's dream: a vast underwater forest, filled with creatures such as self&#45;camouflaging snails and sea&#45;faring iguanas. The forest, made of a kelp species thought to be headed for extinction, is at least twice as deep as California's kelp forests, said expedition co&#45;leader Michael Graham, a marine biologist who works at Moss Landing Marine Laboratories. . . . Max Overstrom&#45;Coleman, a CSUMB student who compared the trip to the disastrous Apollo 13 mission, was the first diver to see the kelp. "All the frustrations of the previous few days, the expensive equipment that's lost, the headache and the heartbreak immediately goes away as you realize you hit the jackpot," he said. &#45; Salinas Californian, Oct. 22, 2007
</p><p><strong>Migrating to College</strong> &#45;&#45; <strong>farmworkers' kids trod new paths</strong> Yesenia Velasquez blends into the high school crowd with her low&#45;key style and soft&#45;spoken voice &#45; her quiet manner and perfect posture accentuated by her dangling silver and blue earrings and curly brown hair tied neatly in a ponytail. . . . Her story is similar to 58 of her peers who attended a daylong workshop Friday at Cal State Monterey Bay, designed to help high school seniors of migrant parents learn about the online college application process.&#45; Monterey Herald, Oct. 21, 2007
</p><p><strong>Legal boundaries, ethical quandaries</strong> &#45; President's Speakers Series continues at CSUMB An award&#45;winning documentary filmmaker and a high&#45;profile political activist will visit the World Theater at California State University, Monterey Bay, as the President's Speakers Series continues. Inaugurated last spring, the series is intended to enhance the intellectual life of the campus and the community. This semester's series title is "Exploring People, Ethics and the Law." &#45; Salinas Californian, Oct. 20, 2007
</p><p><strong>Men's soccer on playoff bubble Now or never.</strong> To many, that may not seem like an enviable situation to be in. Cal State Monterey Bay men's soccer coach Artie Cairel wouldn't have it any other way. With four games to go, the Otters find themselves three measly points out o a guaranteed spot in the NCAA playoffs. &#45; Monterey Herald, Oct. 19, 2007
</p><p><strong>Documentary on Mexican musician is a rich character study</strong>It was supposed to be a short film about a Mexican musician trying to get by in San Francisco's Mission District. Instead, once director Mark Becker got into the life of his subject, Carmelo Muniz Sanchez, 63, he discovered a rich character study and story of the human effect of illegal immigration in reverse. The result was "Romantico," Becker's debut feature, which screens Tuesday night at the World Theater at Cal State Monterey Bay. &#45; Monterey Herald, Oct. 18, 2007
</p><p><strong>Evidence Dance Co. premieres new work, brings back old friend</strong> Pittsburgh Courier photographer Charles "Teenie" Harris was just covering a beat. Sports, politics, funerals, a trip to the beauty parlor. Eleanor Roosevelt and Lena Horne and the guy down at the local bar and grill. In the end, what he captured was everyday life in Pittsburgh ? most particularly of the African American community there ? for almost 40 years. Choreographer Ronald K. Brown's new dance composition "One Shot," coming to the World Theater at Cal State Monterey Bay tonight, is interested in honoring Harris and in the idea of legacy &#45; not only the one someone creates, but the influence of one inherited. &#45; Monterey Herald, Oct. 18, 2007
</p><p><strong>Chinatown plan pleads its case &#45; city wants to hear more specifics about the project</strong> A bright future is taking shape for one of Salinas' most blighted neighborhoods, according to plans presented at a city meeting attended by more than 60 people Tuesday evening. . . The Chinatown Renewal Project is a multi&#45;year community planning effort led by California State University, Monterey Bay to clean up and revitalize about eight blocks north of downtown. &#45; Salinas Californian, Oct. 17, 2007
</p><p><strong>Towersey has postseason plans for Otters</strong> In her first year on the job, Cal State Monterey Bay women's golf coach Marianne Towersey kept it simple. All she wanted was time to evaluate the team's strengths and weaknesses, and design a plan to build up the program. Year 2 has much loftier goals. "We're finally eligible for the postseason," said Towersey. "That's what we're going after." &#45; Monterey Herald, Oct. 17, 2007
</p><p><strong>Author's Table gaining recognition</strong> Monterey County bibliophiles will get a chance to sit down and dine on some delectable food and conversation at this year's Author's Table. The sixth annual event, scheduled for Nov. 4 and 5, brings 16 authors to Monterey County, sponsored by the National Steinbeck Center and Cal State Monterey Bay. The event will raise money for each organization's reading and writing programs. &#45;  Monterey Herald, Oct. 15, 2007
</p><p><strong>Soccer teams at critical juncture</strong> Critical points. That's where both the Cal State Monterey Bay men's and women's soccer teams find themselves after passing the midpoint of their schedules. For the men, it's been a roller coaster ride so far, with many more valleys than peaks. The women's team is coming off a victory, and should benefit from playing its next three games at home. &#45; Monterey Herald, Oct. 12, 2007
</p><p><strong>Otters' unsung hero</strong> When Jody Garry took over as head coach of the Cal State Monterey Bay volleyball team late last spring, she had some understanding of what she was getting into and the type of players she was inheriting. She knew, for example, that seven seniors were returning &#45;  four of them starters . . . &#45; Monterey Herald, Oct. 12, 2007
</p><p><strong>CSU Monterey Bay Announces $4 Million Donation</strong> California State University, Monterey Bay has received $4 million to provide scholarships in journalism and communication studies, the largest gift from a single family in the school's history. The gift, from the estate of the late Marian Krause, was announced earlier this month by CSUMB President Dianne Harrison. Krause was a 35&#45;year resident of Pacific Grove who died in 2006. &#45; ABC&#45;7 San Francisco, Oct. 8
</p><p>For campus news, activities and events, please visit our <a href="http://www.csumb.edu/news%20">news website</a>.
</p>
