---
slug: october-31-2007
title: "October 31, 2007"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p><strong>CSUMB receives McNair Scholars grant</strong> &#45; The U.S. Department of Education has awarded CSUMB nearly $1 million in grant money to help students from underrepresented backgrounds prepare for doctoral studies, President Dianne F. Harrison has announced. Funded through the Ronald E. McNair Postbaccalaureate Achievement Program, the grant will support 25 students each year for four years as they pursue research and other scholarly activities. The goal of the program, named for the African&#45;American astronaut and scientist who died in the Challenger disaster in 1984, is to increase the number of underrepresented, low income and first&#45;generation college students who earn doctoral degrees. <a href="http://news.csumb.edu/site/x20766.xml">Read more about McNair Scholars grant here</a>.
</p><p><strong>DAY OF THE DEAD AT CSUMB</strong> &#45; The School of World Languages and Cultures has transformed its classes and the lobby of Building 49 into Cultural Day of the Dead altars. The main altars are dedicated to four extraordinary artists: Michelangelo Antonioni &#40;1912&#45;2007&#41;, Alvin Batiste &#40;1932&#45;2007&#41;, Ingmar Bergman &#40;1918&#45;2007&#41; and Luciano Pavarotti &#40;1935&#45;2007&#41;. Friends and  family members are also honored. The CSUMB community is invited to visit the exhibition, which has been prepared by Dr. Maria Zielina and students from the Spanish program. &#45; VPA invites the campus to celebrate Day of the Dead from 6 to 9 p.m. Thursday, Nov. 1 at the University Center ballroom. The celebration will include a dance performance, colorful displays, live music, traditional snacks, reflection, and commemoration. Participants can gather at 5:30 p.m. at the Music Hall, then Aztec dancers and giants puppets will lead a candlelight procession to the University Center for the program. <a href="http://vpa.csumb.edu/dead/index.htm">More information on Day of the Dead</a>. &#45; Also on Thursday, students in VPA 306/Digital Public Art will present INVOKE: A Project to Invite Memory and Forgiveness. The project features a series of site&#45;specific art interventions responding to memory and forgiveness, which will result in the reservation and repurposing of public spaces throughout campus.  Ephemeral altars will be created in parking spaces located on the VPA lot, the TAT lot and the University Center lot from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m.
</p><p>Truths worth telling &#42;Pentagon Papers whistle&#45;blower Daniel Ellsberg visits campus Nov. 28&#42;&#42;&#42; &#45; The President's Speakers Series concludes this semester's presentations with a Nov. 28 visit by Dr. Daniel Ellsberg, the RAND Corp. analyst who, in 1971, leaked the classified Pentagon Papers to the New York Times. The documents revealed the U.S. government had engaged in a pattern of deceiving the public about the number of Vietnam War casualties and the nation's ability to win the war. And they instantly validated the antiwar protest movement. He'll be talking about his book, "Secrets: A Memoir of Vietnam and the Pentagon Papers," copies of which will be available for sale. <a href="http://csumb.edu/site/x19928.xml">Reserve a seat here</a>. <a href="http://news.csumb.edu/site/x20764.xml%20">More information about Dr. Ellsberg here</a>.
</p><p><strong>Revisiting Vietnam &#45; A new book by Professor David Anderson</strong> &#45; Over 30 years after the withdrawal of American forces from Southeast Asia, echoes from the Vietnam War still reverberate in 21st&#45;century cultural and political discourse. As the United States increasingly entangles itself in conflicts abroad, policymakers and journalists hearken back to the lessons learned there, many promising that "This is not Vietnam" and others insisting that we are repeating the same mistakes three decades later. The memories of the Vietnam War still haunt the American consciousness and new analyses are essential to understanding and navigating contemporary political and military motives and maneuvers in Afghanistan and Iraq. The War That Never Ends: New Perspectives on the Vietnam War is a new collection of essays that sheds fresh light on the conflict. Editors David L. Anderson and John Ernst unite America's leading Vietnam War scholars to re&#45;examine old interpretations and offer new insights on the motives, execution, and aftermath of the conflict. Contributors tackle the issues of the relationship between America and Vietnam, the military experiences of U.S. soldiers, the delineation of allies and enemies, and examine the war's influence on Congress, the media, and the nation as a whole. The book was released Oct. 12 in Lexington, Ky., as part of a conference on the Vietnam War. It's published by the University Press of Kentucky.
</p><p><strong>Txt Msgs Alert U Cell phones transmit safety alerts at CSUMB</strong> Cell phones &#45; a convenient way to send greetings to friends and family via text messages &#45; have been transformed into campus communications vehicles. At CSUMB, the service is called &#45; what else? &#45; OTTERalert. They blast out campus&#45;wide security and emergency communication alarms &#45; a service that has been getting a lot of attention since the tragic shootings at Virginia Tech. The campus community can rest assured that OTTERalert is for emergency alerts only; those who sign up will not receive spam. Privacy is protected, and only campus administrators and members of the University Police Department can originate the messages. <a href="http://news.csumb.edu/site/x20695.xml">Read more about OTTERalert here</a>.
</p><p><strong>'BEACON' 2007</strong> &#45; Professor Johanna Poethig has completed another public art project. She and Brian Laczko of Oakland designed twin pillars for Gleason Park in Stockton, which feature glass&#45;covered portals that enclose historic photos of original inhabitants of the city's Little Manila community. The pillars are painted with culturally symbolic plum red and are topped by gold flames in a traditionally stylized Filipino design. The gateway completes the park element of a larger redevelopment project for the neighborhood.
</p><p>&#45; <strong>Thursday, Nov. 1</strong>: Day of the Dead celebration, 6 p.m., in the University Center ballroom.&#45; Thursday, Nov. 1&#45;Saturday, Nov. 3: The Good Woman, a play by Bertolt Brecht, presented by the Department of Music and Performing Arts, 8 p.m., in the Meeting House. Free. &#45; <strong>Friday, Nov. 2</strong>: Volleyball vs. CSU Stanislaus, 7 p.m., Otter Sports Center &#45; <strong>Saturday, Nov. 3</strong>: Volleyball vs. Chico State, 7 p.m., Otter Sports Center&#45; <strong>Saturday, Nov. 3</strong>: Osher Lifelong Learning Institute lecture by Dr. Rikk Kvitek, 10&#45;11 a.m., Alumni &amp; Visitors Center
</p><p><strong>UPCOMING</strong> &#45;<strong>Wednesday, Nov. 7</strong>: Open house informational session for the Master of Public Policy program, 6&#45;7:30 p.m., Alumni and Visitors Center &#45; <strong>Thursday, Nov. 8</strong>: Strategic planning town hall meeting, noon&#45;2 p.m., University Center ballroom &#45; <strong>Thursday, Nov.8&#45; Saturday, Nov.10</strong>: The Good Woman, a play by Bertolt Brecht, presented by the Department of Music and Performing Arts, 8 p.m., in the Meeting House. Free.
</p><p><strong>ONGOING</strong>&#45; <strong>Through Nov. 9</strong>: 'Guardians,' works by students in the painting and mural class, and 'Walking Through,' pieces by sculpture students, are on display in the Balfour/Brutzman Gallery in Bldg. 71. In 'Guardians,' students created self&#45;portraits to express their thoughts about what they might guard or protect. The pieces in 'Walking Through' are made of wire; pliers were used to bend and shape the material into the form of shoes. Hours are Monday through Thursday, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., Friday noon to 3 p.m. &#45; <strong>Through Nov. 26</strong>: Works by students in VPA 347 Chicana/o Black Art taught by Dr. Amalia Mesa&#45;Bains and Professor Stephanie A. Johnson is on display in the library. Based on the Spanish Castas paintings of the 17th and 18th centuries which categorized the mestizaje or "mixed race" people into socially stratified positions, the students' "remix" focuses upon narratives of familial legacy, ancestral exploration, and personal cross&#45;cultural negotiation. Using the original paintings as a background with strategic alteration and addition of elements, these modern pieces counter the divisions, legal inequities, and fears promoted by the historical Castas paintings. The students developed their own narratives and reflections of hope in the new Castas images.
</p><p><strong>Men's soccer team earns CSUMB's first&#45;ever conference playoff spot</strong> &#45; In their first year of full NCAA Division II eligibility, CSUMB has qualified for the California Collegiate Athletic Association men's soccer championship. The Otters clinched the university's first&#45;ever CCAA post&#45;season berth with a 2&#45;2 tie at Cal State&#45;Los Angeles last Sunday. The Otters, who enter the tournament as the No. 4 seed with a 6&#45;5&#45;3 conference record &#40;9&#45;7&#45;3 overall&#41; will face No. 2 seed Cal State&#45;Dominguez Hills Friday night at Toro Stadium in Carson. In the other semifinal, top&#45;seeded Sonoma State &#40;17&#45;2&#45;1, 14&#45;0 CCAA&#41; will face No. 3 seed Cal State&#45;L.A. The championship game will be played Sunday afternoon.
</p><p>&#45; A reminder: Fourth Avenue &#40;the street behind the Alumni and Visitors Center&#41; between Divarty Street and Inter&#45;Garrison Road is ONE WAY southbound. There are no plans to make the street two&#45;way, even during the construction work in the area. It's a safety issue &#45; the street is too narrow to safely accommodate two&#45;way traffic and parking. &#45; Third Avenue is closed to through traffic from Inter&#45;Garrison Road to Divarty Street while five wooden structures along Third are coming down. Access to the Outdoor Recreation Center, the Child Development Center and parking lot 84 will be available only from Inter&#45;Garrison. The work is expected to be completed in late October. &#45; Fifth Avenue is closed to traffic. &#45; Divarty Street between Fourth Avenue and Gen. Jim Moore Boulevard is open to westbound traffic only. Divarty remains closed from Fourth east to the site of the new library. Traffic traveling north on Engineer Lane will be able to access the Human Resources Building, and Parking Lots 21 and 23. Traffic can access the lots by turning off Gen. Jim Moore onto the small road just south of Divarty Street, adjacent to the Veterans Clinic. This road connects to Engineer Lane and to the entrance to Parking Lot 23. Parking Lot 21 will be accessed via a newly constructed entrance at the southwest corner of Parking Lot 23. &#45; Our campus is under construction. Please be cautious around construction areas.  We invite you to view this short [slide show](http://cdo.csumb.edu/site/x4929.xml &quot;Slide Show&quot;) created with your safety in mind.
</p><p><strong>Leading an Otter run to the playoffs &#45; CSUMB captains lead Otters to best season</strong> Earlier this season, senior midfielder Kyle Satow became Cal State Monterey Bay's all&#45;time career goal scorer in men's soccer. While obviously proud of the accomplishment, Satow said he would give it up in a heartbeat for a spot in the playoffs. Fellow senior Jake True rarely sees his name in the newspapers or the stat box. A defender, True has but one assist this season. Likewise, senior defender Steven Masters has only one assist. On paper, this trio only stands out because of Satow's stats. In reality, these three captains are the backbone of the team and the sole reason, says CSUMB coach Artie Cairel, why the Otters are one tie away from becoming the first CSUMB athletic program to qualify for the playoffs. &#45; &#42;Monterey Herald&#42;, Oct. 26, 2007
</p><p><strong>Photographer chronicles race and gender</strong> For internationally celebrated photographer Carrie Mae Weems, art is truly a reflection of life. And that is what she hopes to teach students at Cal State Monterey Bay. . . . Weems spoke to a packed audience late Wednesday at the World Theater to open the school's African American Legacy Project. &#45; &#42;Monterey Herald&#42;, Oct. 26, 2007
</p><p><strong>Garden of Hope &#45; Effort brightens Salinas' Chinatown</strong> On a plastic mason's pan, builder Chris Axton pushes water and clay back and forth with a flat hoe. . . Axton is cooking up cob, a construction material similar to adobe that has been used for centuries around the world. It will be used to complete two straw benches at the Community Garden before its first anniversary celebration. On Saturday, Soledad Street will toast the first year of Chinatown's greenest spot . . . in the heart of a neighborhood known for illicit activities, the garden has become a focal point for the renewal of Chinatown. Cal State Monterey Bay . . . has teamed up with landowners and residents to revamp the area and improve its image. &#45;&#45; &#42;Monterey Herald&#42;, Oct. 24, 2007
</p><p>For campus news, activities and events, please visit our [news](http://www.csumb.edu/news &quot;news&quot;) website.
</p>
