---
slug: president-harrison-preaches-college-message
title: "President Harrison preaches college message"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p><strong>CSUMB reaches out to African American community </strong> Each February, Super Sunday sends California State University officials including Chancellor Charles B. Reed, trustees, and campus presidents to African American churches throughout California — where they preach the power of college preparation.
</p><p>As part of the effort, CSU Monterey Bay President Dianne Harrison and Provost Kathy Cruz-Uribe will visit churches in Seaside.
</p><p>On Feb. 19, President Harrison will address the congregation at Greater Victory Temple while Provost Cruz-Uribe will visit New Hope Baptist Church. Following the services, staff members from CSUMB and church education advisers will provide information on the application and admission process, including virtual tours through CSUMentor.edu, the website that provides the tools to plan and apply to a CSU campus. Copies of the <a href="http://www.calstate.edu/college/">How to Get to College</a> poster – a practical guide about how to prepare for college – will be distributed. The guide, available in several languages, in print and electronic form, provides the list of classes that students need to take from sixth grade to 12th grade to qualify for admission to the CSU. It also provides tips for parents and mentors to help students succeed. Aimed at improving college access and graduation rates among African Americans, Super Sunday provides families with a wealth of information about how to get to college and the value and importance of a college degree. A recent report indicates that African American males who do well in college had parents that set high expectations for them and participated in programs that helped them make the transition to college. Family involvement and programs like Super Sunday contribute to college success in the African American community. Now in its seventh year, Super Sunday has expanded to include more than 100 churches throughout the state. Chancellor Reed kicked off the 2012 Super Sunday visits on Feb. 12 in Los Angeles. On Feb. 19, he’ll visit a church in Newark.
</p><p>Photo by Richard Greene <em>?CSUMB President Dianne Harrison addresses the congregation at Greater Victory Temple during Super Sunday 2010. She will visit the church on Feb. 19, 2012, at 10:45 a.m. The church is located at 1620 Broadway Ave., Seaside. </em>
</p>
