---
slug: provost-cruz-uribe-accepts-new-position
title: "Provost Cruz-Uribe accepts new position"
date: January 01 2020
---

<h3>Takes over as Indiana University East chancellor</h3><p>CSU Monterey Bay Provost Kathy Cruz-Uribe has accepted the position of chancellor at Indiana University East.
</p><p>Dr. Cruz-Uribe, who has served the campus as provost and vice president of academic affairs since 2007, will assume her new position July 1.
</p><p>“As I move to a new chapter of my life as Chancellor of Indiana University East, I am deeply grateful for my time at CSU Monterey Bay,” Dr. Cruz-Uribe said. “The campus has undergone tremendous changes in recent years, and I am very proud of the enrollment growth, new academic programs, improvement in student retention, and the unwavering focus on student success. "My husband and I have always felt welcome at CSUMB and have made many good friends. I have appreciated the support and excellent work of my staff and colleagues, and will watch the continued progress of CSUMB with great interest and affection.” Said President Eduardo Ochoa, “Kathy has been invaluable help to me since I came to Cal State Monterey Bay. I consider her both a friend and a valued colleague. Kathy has shown great insight into the academic issues on this campus and has been an outstanding leader over the years in reshaping and focusing our curriculum. I am certain she will do an excellent job at IU East and I am just as certain she will be missed here.”
</p><p>At CSUMB, Dr. Cruz-Uribe leads all academic operations of the university and serves as its second-in-command. She developed and implemented the university’s 10-year strategic plan, which included a five-year academic plan. During her tenure, freshman retention rates rose from 65 percent in 2007 to 79 percent in 2012. Enrollment grew by about 50 percent, from about 3,600 students in 2007 to more than 5,600 in 2012, accompanied by a commitment to academic and space planning to accommodate the growth. The university also went through a successful reaccreditation process – the first since its founding in 1994. Eight new academic degree programs came into existence under her leadership, as well as an undergraduate research center, and the general education program was revised. In addition to four academic colleges at CSUMB, she oversees the library, information technology, sponsored programs, international programs and institutional research. Before coming to CSUMB, she was at Northern Arizona University from 1989 to 2007, serving four years as dean of the College of Social and Behavioral Sciences. An archaeologist, Dr. Cruz-Uribe received her doctorate in anthropology from the University of Chicago. IU East has an enrollment of more than 4,100 students. As chief executive office, the chancellor is responsible for the operation of the campus and reports to the IU president. A national search for a new provost will take place during the next academic year. Plans are under way to fill Dr. Cruz-Uribe's position on an interim basis by the time she departs.  
</p>
