---
slug: second-cohort-of-csumb-hartnell-teacher-pathway-program-students-to-visit-csumb-
title: "Second Cohort of CSUMB-Hartnell Teacher Pathway Program Students to Visit CSUMB "
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>SEASIDE, Calif., September 21, 2017 – Students enrolled in the <a href="https://csumb.edu/liberalstudies/teacher-pathway-program">CSUMB-Hartnell South Monterey County Teacher Pathway Program</a> will visit CSUMB’s University Center on Friday, September 22, 2017. The visiting students, all members of the second cohort of the new collaborative program with Hartnell College, are currently taking classes at the Hartnell College King City Education Center but have access to resources and support at Hartnell and CSUMB.</p><p>Resources at Hartnell and CSUMB include tutoring, cohort enrichment and pre-professional workshops, priority registration, stipends, targeted academic advising and mentorship.</p><p>The <a href="https://csumb.edu/liberalstudies/teacher-pathway-program">Teacher Pathway Program</a>, now with a total of 62 students, all of whom are first-generation college students, prepares students to make a significant and lasting impact on the quality of education that is afforded to youth in South Monterey County.</p><p>“In the first year of the CSUMB-Hartnell South Monterey County Teacher Pathway Program we admitted a cohort of 21 students. Our second cohort for this year is up to 41 students. We’ve nearly doubled the number of students in the program in one year,” said Antonio Gallardo, teacher pathway program coordinator at CSUMB. “This is a testament to what institutions of higher education can collectively do to begin to address the critical shortage of credentialed teachers in Monterey County.”</p><p>Hartnell College and CSUMB have built the teacher pathway program with an eye towards sustainability; ensuring this project continues to prepare fully qualified elementary and special education teachers well into the future.</p>
