---
slug: startup-challenge-returns-to-csumb
title: "Startup Challenge Returns to CSUMB"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>SEASIDE, Ca., March 1, 2018 – California State University, Monterey Bay (CSUMB) is set to host the Startup Challenge again this spring for the ninth consecutive year. The Startup Challenge is a new business competition and accelerator program that supports the founding, funding and growth of new and innovative businesses in the Monterey Bay region.</p><p>The competition, which as awarded more than $350K over nine years, offers three divisions for competitors based on the size and scope of their business.</p><p>Entrepreneurs and startup companies in Monterey, Santa Cruz and San Benito counties, as well as Gilroy and Morgan Hill, may apply to the competition through CSUMB’s <a href="https://csumb.edu/iied/startup-challenge-monterey-bay">Institution for Innovation and Economic Development</a> (iiED). <b>Applications are due by midnight, Monday, March 12th. </b></p><p>Startup Challenge is also offering introduction to <a href="https://csumb.edu/iied/startup-challenge-monterey-bay">Startup Challenge workshops</a> to help prospective contestants prepare their application and business pitch.</p><p>Key dates for the Challenge are the application deadline on March 12th, the qualifying round pitches on April 8th, and the final round and venture showcase on May 12th.</p><p>The Startup Challenge Monterey Bay is organized by the Institute for <a href="https://csumb.edu/iied">Innovation and Economic Development</a> (iiED).  The iiED provides programs and events to support entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship in the Monterey Bay region. The iiED is an institute of the College of Business at CSU Monterey Bay.</p>
