---
slug: students-recognized-at-research-competition
title: "Students recognized at research competition"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>Three CSUMB students were recognized for the quality of their work at the California State University Student Research Competition.
</p><p>The system-wide contest showcases the high caliber of research conducted by CSU students at all 23 campuses. This year, the competition was held May 6 and 7 at Fresno State.
</p><p>A CSUMB graduate student and an undergraduate each took second place in the biological and agricultural sciences category and an undergraduate was runner-up in the engineering and computer science category. Erin Stanfield, a master’s degree student in Coastal and Watershed Science &amp; Policy, was recognized for her research project, "Presence and Toxicity of Freshwater Cyanobacteria in Pinto Lake, Monterey Bay Area, California." Dr. Aparna Sreenivasan was her faculty adviser. Kevin Johnson, a biology major, was honored for his project, "A Comparison of Cyanobacterial Abundance and Potential Toxicity in Two California Coastal Lakes." Dr. Sreenivasan was his adviser. Edgar Calcanas, a computer science and information technology major, earned recognition for his project, "Performance Analysis of a Delay Tolerant Routing Protocol." Dr. Sathya Narayanan was his adviser. The purpose of the annual competition is to focus attention on the outstanding accomplishments of students engaged in significant research and creative activity in all academic disciplines. Participants made oral presentations before juries of professional experts from major corporations, foundations, public agencies, colleges and universities in California, then responded to questions. CSUMB’s representatives were chosen by a campus selection committee.? Other students who presented their work: ?• Anthony Basilio, Biology: "Effects of body size on the swimming performance and pectoral fin growth of black surfperch (embiotoca jacksoni) from central California." Advising Faculty: Dr. Lara Ferry, Dr. Ben Perlman and Dr. Aparna Sreenivasan
</p><p>• Alexandra Davis and Craig Mueller, Environmental Science, Technology &amp; Policy: "A regional analysis of the distribution of Rippled Scour Depressions along the California coast." Advising Faculty: Dr. Rikk Kvitek • Jesse Mangiagli, Psychology: "College Students’ Attitudes Toward Sexuality: An Analysis of Homophobia as a Function of Masculinity." Advising Faculty: Dr. Mrinal Sinha • Stacy Mauzey, Biology: "Extended Host Range of Pseudomonas cannabina pv. alisalensis Includes Brussels Sprouts and Cabbage." Advising Faculty: Dr. Marc Los Huertos; Research Advisor: Dr. Carolee T. Bull, USDA/ARS • Cody Rosasco, Psychology: "Adult Sleep Patterns are not Predicted by Parental Perceptions and the effect of infant sleep-training methods." Advising Faculty: Dr. Jennifer Dyer-Seymour
</p><p>• Keri Zaro, Kinesiology: "Applied Warm-Up Strategies: Effects on Vertical Jump." Advising Faculty: Dr. Trish Sevene and Dr. Kent Adams
</p><p>Photos galleries are available <a href="http://25thcsuannualresearhcompetition.shutterfly.com/">here</a> (May 6) and <a href="http://studentresearchcompetitionday2.shutterfly.com/">here</a> (May 7).  
</p>
