---
slug: students-honored-for-academic-excellence
title: "Students honored for academic excellence"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>CSU Monterey Bay held its annual honors convocation April 12, recognizing more than 250 students for their distinguished academic achievements.
</p><p>An overflow crowd filled the University Center ballroom as five students received special awards, 20 were honored for their Service Learning work and 247 were acknowledged for having earned grade-point averages of at least 3.5.
</p><p>The honors students will be among the approximately 1,300 graduates crossing the stage at the May 18 commencement ceremony.
</p><p>After congratulating the members of the Class of 2013, CSUMB President Eduardo Ochoa recognized the parents, spouses, friends and family members who supported the students and helped them along the way.
</p><p>Following the president’s remarks, Deans Brian Simmons, Marsha Moroh and Ilene Feinman introduced the honors graduates and Service Learning award winners from their respective colleges.
</p><p>Last to be introduced were winners of the five student awards. They were:
</p><p>• <strong>President's Award for Exemplary Student Achievement</strong>, given to a well-rounded student who made notable contributions to a particular area of university life through depth of involvement and service as a student leader; participated actively as a positive agent of innovation and action with demonstrated service to the campus community; and achieved a grade-point average of 3.0 or higher: <strong>Ana Angeles, Business Administration</strong> Ana served with numerous student organizations during her years at CSUMB, and was chief financial officer of the Associated Students for the current academic year. She also was an Orientation Leader in 2010 and 2011, a student representative on the Strategic Budget Committee, and a founder of the campus Asian Pacific Islander Association.
</p><p>Ana’s efforts were instrumental in organizing the first Asian Pacific Islander Association graduation event that will be held this year.
</p><p>• <strong>Provost's Award for Exemplary Academic Achievement</strong>, given to a student who has demonstrated exemplary achievement in his or her major; excelled personally and academically with a cumulative grade-point average of 3.5 or higher; and contributed to the learning community of CSUMB: <strong>Emily Roncase, Biology</strong> Emily came to Cal State Monterey Bay as a transfer student in fall 2010. She took advantage of opportunities offered by CSUMB’s Undergraduate Research Opportunities Center for a summer internship, and now serves as a program assistant for UROC, where she works with staff to build curriculum, create on-line student resources and build a network of research and outreach collaborations.
</p><p>Emily is also active in peer-to-peer mentoring programs at CSUMB and has volunteered at the local Boys and Girls Club to help develop a Girls Science Club.
</p><p>She has received a $90,000 National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship, and is considering offers from a number of doctoral programs in molecular biology, including Scripps Research Institute and Brown University.
</p><p>• <strong>Outstanding Senior Award for Social Justice</strong>, given to a student who has participated in a project that promotes social justice and generates awareness that benefited local communities historically underserved populations: <strong>Graciela Rizo, Psychology</strong> In the fall of 2012, Graciela organized the Otter Dream Association, a place for undocumented students and supporters to come together. The club served as a forum for people to be updated on current immigration law issues and also provided a safe and supportive environment.
</p><p>Graciela writes that the creation of the club had a positive impact on her life “because I was creating another resource for CSU Monterey Bay, especially for the students who are afraid to come out because of rejection.”
</p><p>• <strong>Alumni Vision Award</strong>, given to a first-generation student who manifests the beliefs and tenets of the Vision Statement through personal example and has provided leadership in a project or activity that extends the university’s Vision into the lives of others: <strong>Yesenia Lopez, Kinesiology</strong> Yesenia is a first-generation student who says that she considered leaving CSUMB during her first semester because of the many challenges she faced in adapting to college life. However, she soon built a support network of friends and faculty members and, she says, “Suddenly, I knew that CSUMB was the best thing happening in my life.”
</p><p>Not only did Yesenia move forward with her own education, she became involved in efforts to help others make the same transition. Through her work with the Educational Opportunity Program, she has become an invaluable resource to incoming students. In fall 2012, Yesenia was one of six students selected to share their stories of achievement at the First Generation Student Panel organized by the Center for Student Success.
</p><p>• <strong>Outstanding Senior Scholar-Athlete Award</strong>, given to a student-athlete who has demonstrated exemplary academic achievement: <strong>Brandon Ward, Business Administration</strong> Brandon has been a four-year member of the CSUMB men’s basketball team and leaves as the most accomplished student and athlete in the team’s history.
</p><p>Off the court, the business administration major is a three–time CCAA All–-Academic team member who became the first player in Otter men’s basketball history and the only player from the CCAA in 2013 to earn NCAA Division II Academic All–District honors.
</p><p>On the court, he’s CSUMB’s all–time scoring leader and the No. 2 Otter all–time in assists and steals. Brandon has been a member of the Student-Athlete Advisory Committee, and the Student Fee Advisory Committee.
</p><p>Service Learning awards were presented to one student in each academic major who has demonstrated exceptional commitment to service in the local community. Service Learning award winners and their majors: • Biology – Stephanie Perez • Business Administration – Theresa Gordon • Collaborative Health and Human Services – Luz Nunez, Maria Vasquez • Computer Design – Fernando Lopez? • Computer Science and Information Technology – Leon Corrales Morales • Environmental Science, Technology and Policy – Shelby Rogers? • Global Studies – Kasey Scolavino • Human Communication – Stephanie Johnson • Integrated Studies – Ashley Wilson • Japanese – Rose Buckberg • Kinesiology – Erin Schiller • Liberal Studies – Emma Ramirez • Marine Science – Elizabeth Lopez • Mathematics – Brenda Valencia? • Psychology – Brizey Orjuela • Science and Environmental Policy – Laura Bakken • Social and Behavioral Sciences – Ofa Nau • Teledramatic Arts and Technology – Edward Carapezza • Visual and Public Art – Alycia Drube
</p><p><a href="http://csumb.edu/commencement">Get information on CSUMB's May 18 commencement ceremony here.</a>
</p><p> 
</p>
