---
slug: students-haunt-house-for-a-good-cause
title: "Students haunt house for a good cause"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>The Rotaract Club of CSU Monterey Bay wants to scare you.
</p><p>About 15 of the club’s members have volunteered to help at the Castle of the Dead Haunted House in Salinas this Halloween season.
</p><p>The haunted house promises 6,000 square feet of one scary encounter after another, with the CSUMB contingent doing its part as actors. Other students will work in the adjacent pumpkin patch. Visitors will go from a Steampunk Castle to the Haunted Sanitarium to the Merciless Maze filled with creatures of all kinds. Rotaract is a service club for men and women ages 18 to 30 and is modeled on Rotary International. Its motto: “service above self.” Rotaract brings together college students for the purpose of humanitarian service, networking, building goodwill and promoting peace around the world. “One thing that makes our club unique is that we’re not university-based; instead, we’re community-based. Students from Monterey Peninsula College, Hartnell College, Monterey Institute of International Studies and the Defense Language Institute can join, and we have several members from each of those institutions,” said current member and former president Charn Singh. Castle of the Dead benefits Sun Streets Centers’ STEPS – Safe Teens Empowerment Program. Sun Street Centers works to prevent alcohol and drug addiction by offering education, prevention, treatment and recovery to individuals and families regardless of income. Dozens of volunteers from Salinas area schools will join the Rotaract Club members in staffing the house and pumpkin patch. The house will be “haunted” Oct. 25, 26 and 29-31 at 185 Maryal Drive, next to Rabobank Stadium in Salinas. Hours are: ?• Oct. 25 – 3-10 p.m.? • Oct. 26 – 3-9 p.m. • Oct. 29-30 – 7-10 p.m. • Oct. 31 – 6 p.m.-midnight The CSUMB contingent will be there on Oct. 25. Tickets are $12 and area available at the door. <em>Photos show CSUMB students at last year's Haunted House, courtesy of the Rotaract Club</em>
</p>
