---
slug: student-films-shown-at-carmel-festival-june-19
title: "Student films shown at Carmel festival June 19"
date: January 01 2020
---

<h3>Outdoor Forest Theater hosts third annual event </h3><p>Work by students at California State University, Monterey Bay will be presented at the third annual Carmel Short Film Festival scheduled for dusk on June 19 at the Outdoor Forest Theater.
</p><p>Sponsored by the Forest Theater Guild, CSU Monterey Bay's Department of Teledramatic Arts and Technology and the Monterey Bay Film Society, the screening is an encore presentation of work shown at the university’s Capstone Festival in May. "Capstones" are senior projects, a graduation requirement for all CSUMB students.
</p><p>Among the "shorts" – all are under six minutes – to be screened are music videos, documentaries, animation and narratives. All films are family-friendly (PG-13 content). Tickets are $12 and can be purchased at the door. The program is expected to start around 8 p.m. Spectators are advised to wear warm clothing and may want to bring a blanket. Concessions will be available.The Forest Theater is located at the corner of Mountain View and Santa Rita streets near downtown Carmel. For information, visit the web at <a href="http://www.foresttheaterguild.org" title="www.foresttheaterguild.org">www.foresttheaterguild.org</a>. On the program are:
</p><p><em>Into the Dream</em> by Evelyn Montes A woman's passions and dreams are kept alive through music.
</p><p><em>A World of Her Own</em> by Ralph Blanchard This short documentary is a portrait of Patri, a victim of schizophrenia and her family who has adapted to her world.
</p><p><em>The Gift</em> by Anthony Spedaliere and Joab Perez The passing of a gift from one person to another.
</p><p><em>They Call Us Brats</em> by Tabitha Enanoria andKatherine Foltz Strength and hope are just two words that describe the Moberly family. Mark Moberly is an active duty member in the Army. His wife Kelly and their five children have just moved to Seaside California. In this documentary film we explore the children’s perspective and how they feel about growing up in a Military family.
</p><p><em>Newly Dea</em>d by Aaron Roy Recently demised, a soul discovers how the system works in the afterlife. Due to budget cuts, it is now up to the soul to choose between heaven or hell. both Angel and Demon, serving as representatives for both systems, try to sell one place over the other. Ultimately, everyone finds themselves stuck in purgatory because of decisions made by upper management.
</p><p><em>A Daughter's Journey</em> by Lori Zaknich A Daughter’s Journey is a film that looks at the memories of my father after his death. It touches on the emotions that relate to those memories and our relationship. This film is about honoring him as well as truthfully expressing the difficult feelings that come up when remembering my childhood. It is a discovery of self through the experiences in my life. And it is about continuing forward with strength and good intentions for my own child.
</p><p><em>Viaje al Mar</em> by Ryan Elam and Bryan Elbert A young boy living on a farm decides to embark on a journey to see the ocean for the first time.
</p><p><em>Serious Leisure</em> by Tanya Mullen An ambitious and mildly ludicrous man has a love for hobbies but unbeknownst to him is disastrous at all of them.
</p><p><em>Lords, Ladies</em> by Casey Poma When medieval knight Marek has enough of standing in a watch tower day after day, he urges his friend and fellow knight Borin to join him for a trip in the woods.
</p><p><em>Addictive Application</em> by Rachel Asendorf Documentary about the Facebook virtual reality game Farmville where players spend numerous amounts of time harvesting a virtual plot of land. A Farmville player takes a day to work on a real organic farm in Salinas, CA to gain perspective on the reality of farm work.
</p><p><em>The Karl Krogstad Dimension</em> by Kelly Hills Karl Krogstad is both truth and fiction in his own autobiography. The Seattle born artist finally settles down after sixty-five films and seventeen music videos, and thousands of paintings but who’s counting? Karl is one of the best independent, surrealist filmmakers and how can he not be when he is best friends with Gus Van Sant and Tom Robbins. The outrageous, loud, wild and out there KK has finally summed up his sixty plus years of life with this autobiography. This is just a small peek through the window into the world of Karl Krogstad.
</p><p><em>The Wet Sand</em> by Joshua Fryou Traumatized from their experiences at war, two discharged soldiers find closure from one special dog.
</p><p><em>Bright Black</em> by Shantel Byrd A tap dancer, a hip hop dancer and a ballerina unite performing together on stage creating their own mixed form of dance. The dancers not only prove their successes alone, but also show how paths to new and different opportunities can await when they congregate with others.
</p><p><em>Clueless</em> by Petey Camarillo Ava Brown cheats, lies and doesn’t have a care in the world. Too bad her parents are too dense to notice.
</p><p><em>Good Morning, Day</em>! by Calvin Alice-Demorest On a day brimming with good vibes, several strangers collide and bring their energies together while waiting for the bus. When it shows, everything about the journey seems distant and strange, until a mysterious and flirty girl thinks she’s got skills at tic-tac-toe.
</p><p><em>Resurrection</em> by Nichole Worden Both Eric and Vickie Worden were bikers before being a biker was the hip thing to do. From their early twenties both had been riding Harleys, but that lifestyle was put on hold when they started their family. Now that all the kids have grown up, and the business is doing well, it is time to don the leathers and ride again.
</p><p><em>EPIC!</em> by Tyler Lee A pair of adventurers in a fantasy role-playing game find themselves faced with a seemingly unbeatable foe: A Dungeon Master that takes himself too seriously. What will happen when rules are overlooked and egos get in the way? Find out in an adventure where imagination and reality collide!
</p><p><em>ON BOARD</em> by Dustin Brockman A personal narrative-style documentary that brings viewers literally “on board” into the world of surfing, told by those who truly embrace it.   
</p>
