---
slug: sustainability-week-celebrated-oct-22-25
title: "Sustainability Week celebrated Oct. 22-25"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>CSUMB will join universities and colleges across the nation on Oct. 24 in celebrating Campus Sustainability Day, an event that was created in 2003 to draw attention to the growing momentum of sustainability initiatives on campuses. Much as they do with Earth Day celebrations, the Associated Students’ Environmental Affairs Committee has lengthened the celebration to an entire week. “We are doing this to promote sustainable transportation and to inform students of various principles and practices they can do to reduce our carbon footprint,” said AS transportation and energy coordinator Shamika Lucas. “Our main objective is to raise student awareness and promote sustainability.” So far, these activities are on the schedule: • <strong>Monday, Oct. 22 – Meatless Monday</strong> During lunch and dinner in the Dining Commons, students can win prizes by answering sustainability-related trivia questions. Along with hundreds of colleges and universities, CSUMB highlights meatless options each Monday, to encourage students to think about the health benefits of eating less meat and because of the environmental benefits. Did you know that it takes 2,500 gallons of water to make one pound of beef? <a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/drop-cheeseburger">Learn more about Meatless Mondays at CSUMB.</a><strong>• Tuesday, Oct. 23 – Trolley Tuesday</strong> From 9:30 a.m. to noon, students can win free vouchers for use at the Farm Stand and a free semester-long bicycle rental courtesy of the Otter Cycle Center just by riding the trolley. Campus transportation planner Megan Tolbert will talk to students about sustainable transportation and why reducing greenhouse gases is important. The Otter Trolley runs every 12 minutes from 7:30 a.m. to 6:45 p.m. on the main campus. <a href="http://transportation.csumb.edu/trip-homepage">Learn more about campus transportation resources</a>.  <strong>• Wednesday, Oct. 24 – Sustain Under the Stars</strong> Starting at 7 p.m., students will camp out on the main quad. A scavenger hunt and other activities are planned. <strong>• Thursday, Oct. 25 – Campus Clean-Up</strong> Help make the campus a cleaner and more attractive place. Volunteers are asked to meet at the Dining Commons at 10 a.m. for a two-hour shift.
</p><p>This is the first year CSUMB has observed Sustainability Week, but it’s not likely to be the last since <a href="http://ideals.csumb.edu/sustainability">sustainability is one of the university’s core ideals.</a> “The week focuses on informing students about how to reduce their carbon footprint. It’s about reducing waste, decreasing gas emissions, recycling, composting . . . the list goes on,” Lucas said. And that’s something that should be celebrated for more than a week.  
</p><p><a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2012/oct/4/getting-charged-over-electric-cars">Related story:* Electric vehicle charging stations come to campus*</a>  
</p>
