---
slug: taiko-wt-release
title: "Taiko WT release"
date: January 01 2020
---

<h4>San Jose Taiko performs at World Theater Dec. 6</h4><p>San Jose Taiko will take the stage at California State University, Monterey Bay's World Theater on Dec. 6 as the performing arts series continues.The word "taiko" is Japanese for drum, and the art of drumming has been a staple of Japanese culture for centuries.The group was formed in 1973 by Japanese-Americans who were looking for a way to express themselves and explore their cultural heritage. Since then, the group has mesmerized audiences with its powerful and spellbinding music - music that expresses the beauty and harmony of the human spirit through the voice of the taiko.As a symbol, taiko holds much of the essence and spirit of Japan, replete with continued possibilities, renewal and transformation. Its origins were found in the daily life of the common people. Priests used taiko to dispel evil spirits and insects from the rice fields; Samurai used taiko to instill fear in the enemy and courage in themselves; and the peasants used taiko in their prayers for rain, in festivals, and in thanksgiving for bountiful harvests. The traditional practice and performance of taiko requires dedication, physical endurance, harmony and a collective spirit.San Jose Taiko has taken this essence and voice of the traditional taiko and infused it with the vitality and freshness of their American spirit, creating a new art form. The artists use the power and beauty of taiko to transcend cultural barriers and foster a greater understanding of the Japanese-American culture. Taiko is so deeply a part of the traditions of the Japanese and the Shinto and Buddhist religions that it is considered to be both the essence and the heartbeat of the Japanese spirit.By studying with masters of other traditions and cultures, San Jose Taiko musicians have broadened and embellished this historical art form. Their style joins the traditional rhythms of Japanese drumming with the beat of world rhythms, including African, Balinese, Brazilian, Latin and jazz percussion. The sound is contemporary, exciting, new and innovative, bridging many styles while still resonant of the Asian soul in America.Tickets range from $10 to $25 and can be purchased by calling the World Theater box office at (831) 582-4580; TTY/TDD 582-5066; or online at csumb.edu/worldtheater. For disability-related accommodations, please contact the World Theater box office no later than 10 days prior to the performance.
</p><p>The World Theater is located on Sixth Avenue on the CSUMB campus. Driving directions and a campus map are available at CSUMB.edu/map. For a short video clip of the performance, visit csumb.edu/worldtheater.
</p>
