---
slug: talk-by-state-agriculture-official-nov-9
title: "Talk by state agriculture official Nov. 9"
date: January 01 2020
---

<h3>A GREATER VISION
	CSUMB forum on ‘The Two Ecos: Economics and Ecosystem’</h3><p>The “Greater Vision” series of public forums on topics important to local agriculture and the larger community continues Nov. 9. The topic: "The Two Ecos: Economics and Ecosystem.”
</p><p>The event will be held in the Alumni and Visitors Center on General Jim Moore Boulevard at Inter-Garrison Road, starting at 1 p.m. The event is free; however, a parking permit must be purchased from the attendant on duty. Please RSVP to <a href="&#109;&#x61;&#x69;&#108;&#x74;&#x6f;&#58;&#x61;&#x62;&#98;&#121;&#x40;&#103;&#114;&#x6f;&#119;&#101;&#x72;s&#104;&#x69;p&#112;&#x65;&#x72;&#46;&#x63;&#x6f;&#109;">abby@growershipper.com</a>. Sandra Schubert, undersecretary of the California Department of Food and Agriculture, will be the keynote speaker. Her address, "Agriculture is Everybody’s Business," will provide context for understanding the challenges of public policy from the local, regional and state levels. A panel chaired by CSU Monterey Bay Professor Marc Los Huertos will look at issues surrounding economics and the environment. Panelists will include Dr. Michael Cahn, University of California Cooperative Extension farm adviser who specializes in irrigation and water resources; Greg Pepping, executive director of the Coastal Watershed Council; Norm Groot, executive director of the Monterey County Farm Bureau; and Lisa Lurie, agricultural water quality coordinator, NOAA’s Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary. CSUMB Professor Brad Barbeau will offer closing remarks.
</p><p>“A Greater Vision” is an annual educational event hosted by the Grower-Shipper Association Foundation, and supported by CSUMB and the Central Coast Ag Task Force. It provides a series of public forums featuring speakers and panel discussions from community members, academic researchers, elected officials, public agencies and agricultural representatives. The forums are intended to provide information from diverse points of view.
</p><p>The day’s schedule:
</p><p><strong>12:30-1 p.m.</strong>– Check-in at the Alumni and Visitors Center on Gen. Jim Moore Boulevard <strong>1-1:10 p.m.</strong> – Opening remarks by Dr. Marylou Shockley, chair of CSUMB’s School of Business <strong>1:10-1:20 p.m.</strong> – Welcome remarks by CSUMB President Dianne Harrison <strong>1:20-1:55 p.m</strong>. – Keynote address <strong>2-3:35 p.m.</strong> – Panel discussion <strong>3:35-3:50 p.m.</strong> – Closing remarks by Dr. Barbeau  
</p>
