---
slug: teacher-pathway-program-receives-generous-donation-at-6th-annual-mariachi-festival
title: "Teacher Pathway Program Receives Generous Donation at 6th Annual Mariachi Festival"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>SEASIDE, Calif., September 11, 2017 – California State University Monterey Bay’s (CSUMB) College of Education received a generous donation at the Sixth Annual Mariachi &amp; Tequila Festival on September 9, 2017 that will help ensure the joint <a href="https://csumb.edu/liberalstudies/teacher-pathway-program">Teacher Pathway Program</a> with Hartnell College continues well into the future. </p><p>The <a href="https://csumb.edu/liberalstudies/teacher-pathway-program">Teacher Pathway Program</a>, now with a total of 62 students, all of whom are first-generation college students, prepares students to make a significant and lasting impact on the quality of education that is afforded to youth in South Monterey County. </p><p>“CSUMB's College of Education thanks Mr. Ricky Cabrera and Mr. Don Chapin for the generous gift of $12,000 from proceeds of the 2017 Salinas Mariachi Festival. These funds will go towards supporting students in the south Monterey County Teacher Pathway,” said Jose Luis Alvarado, Dean of CSUMB’s College of Education. “The Teacher Pathway Program is a collaborative "grow our own" effort between CSUMB and Hartnell College that offers residents of south Monterey County the full pathway to becoming elementary teachers in south Monterey County.” </p><p>Hartnell College and CSUMB have built the teacher pathway program, now starting its second year, with an eye towards sustainability; ensuring this project continues to prepare fully qualified elementary and special education teachers well into the future.</p><p>Proceeds from the Mariachi Festival will support both the National Steinbeck Center’s Steinbeck Young Authors Program and CSUMB’s Teacher Pathway Program. The producers of the event, National Steinbeck Center board member Ricky Cabrera, and former CSUMB Foundation board member Don Chapin presented a check in the amount of $12,000 to Alvarado at the event on Saturday night.</p><p>“The University and the College of Education are most grateful for the support and investment made in this transformative program,” Alvarado added.</p>
