---
slug: thinking-of-starting-a-business
title: "Thinking of starting a business?"
date: January 01 2020
---

<h3>Nov. 14 event offers help for aspiring entrepreneurs</h3><p>Aspiring entrepreneurs are invited to a panel discussion at Cal State Monterey Bay to hear “tales from the trenches” from people who have successfully started, grown and ran a business. The free event will be held from 4 to 6 p.m., Nov. 14, in the University Center, located on Sixth Avenue at B Street. Driving directions and a campus map can be found at csumb.edu/map. Attendees will hear from entrepreneurs who have started one or more companies. Each panel member will give a short talk followed by questions from the audience. Panel members: • David Fritsch is the owner and lead developer at Webity &#40;formally Fritsch Services&#41; of Monterey. He started the company in 2009 to offer affordable website services to small businesses, start&#45;ups and entrepreneurs. • Brigid McGrath Massie is a serial entrepreneur, having successfully launched a book publishing company, a recreational and classic vehicle storage facility and one of the most successful bingo halls in California. She is an award winning speaker, author and business consultant. ? • Jeff Munks started a public service 30 years ago, designed to make interpreters available to help newly arrived Vietnamese. Today, Language Line Services is the world's largest provider of over&#45;the&#45;phone interpretation services, employing approximately 6,000 people and covering over 175 languages. • Joe Opitz has been in the restaurant industry since 1987. In 2010, he and his wife, Luciana, opened Flanagan’s Irish&#45;American Pub in Carmel. ?
</p><p>• Deborah L. Walliser, a strong advocate of sustainability, is the CEO of Got Produce?, a global farm franchise company offering modular hydroponic greenhouse systems, and executive director of Solsustech Inc., a research and development company focusing on hydroponic technology. The Entrepreneurship Forum is one of a series, held each semester, sponsored by the university’s School of Business, the Institute for Innovation and Economic Development and the CSUMB Student Entrepreneurs.
</p><p>For more information, contact Mary Jo Zenk at 582&#45;3230.
</p><p><a href="http://innovation.csumb.edu">Learn more about the Institute for Innovation and Economic Development.</a>
</p>
