---
slug: thousands-celebrate-commencement-at-csumb
title: "Thousands celebrate commencement at CSUMB"
date: January 01 2020
---

<h3>"Constructive civil discourse can start with you" graduates told</h3><p>On a warm, sunny morning, Dr. Alice Rivlin urged the graduates of California State University, Monterey Bay to help end the partisan gridlock that is paralyzing the nation's political system.
</p><p>Dr. Rivlin, an economist, member of President Obama's National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, and a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, was the keynote speaker at the university’s May 19 commencement. With more than 1,120 students receiving bachelor’s and master’s degrees, it was the largest graduating class in school history. They received their diplomas before a capacity crowd of about 8,000 family members and friends. At a time when the political dialogue seems dominated by voices at the extremes of the debate, Dr. Rivlin has earned a reputation as a thoughtful problem-solver. She has worked with members of both political parties in attempts to craft economic solutions. In her remarks, she lamented the polarization that has beset Congress, explaining that it undermines problem solving. “Polarization produces gridlock . . . and we can’t afford gridlock,” she said. “We face serious problems that will deteriorate rapidly if we do nothing: rising public debt, climate change, immigration and increasing inequality – to mention just four of the most important. “All of these challenges are manageable. But polarized politics and gridlock are preventing us from managing them,” she said. She challenged the graduates to help solve the problem. “I think you can do a lot,” she said. “Changing the tone of political discourse has to start with public pressure on politicians and it has to start with you. “Now that you have your degree from Cal State Monterey Bay, you can be part of this pressure wherever you are. “Constructive civil discourse can start with you. Right now, today.” Before Dr. Rivlin’s remarks, President Dianne Harrison conferred on her an honorary Doctor of Laws degree. The commencement ceremony, the 16th in the university’s history, is the sixth and final one to be presided over by Dr. Harrison. In June, she will assume the presidency at CSU Northridge. The ceremony opened with the traditional welcome in Spanish, Japanese, Chinese and Vietnamese, delivered by members of the faculty. In her remarks, President Harrison pointed out that the graduating class "boasts an amazing pool of talent. They arrive at this day with a diverse array of experiences, and from a wide range of backgrounds,” she said. She pointed out that among the graduating class are 15 veterans. “Located at the former site of Fort Ord, our campus is forever linked to our nation’s military heritage,” she said.
</p><p>Dr. Harrison then introduced Caliah Hill, this year's winner of the President's Medal for Exemplary Student Achievement. Hill, a Human Communication major, was student government president during the just-completed academic year. Hill presented Dr. Harrison with the first senior class gift in the history of CSUMB, a Monterey cypress tree that will be planted on campus. Dr. Miguel Tirado of the Department of Health, Human Services and Public Policy was awarded emeriti faculty status, acknowledging his distinguished service to the university. To learn more about Dr. Rivlin, click <a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2012/apr/3/nationally-known-economist-alice-rivlin-deliver-commencement-address">here</a>. To read her commencement address, click <a href="http://news.csumb.edu/news/2012/may/19/commencement-remarks-alice-rivlin">here</a>. To see more photos, click <a href="http://news.csumb.edu/gallery/thousands-celebrate-2012-commencement">here</a>.  
</p>
