---
slug: under-pressure-54-hours-to-launch-a-business
title: "Under pressure: 54 hours to launch a business"
date: January 01 2020
---

<h3>CSUMB to host Startup Weekend in January</h3><p>Ever wonder what it takes to be an entrepreneur???CSU Monterey Bay will be a great place to find out when the university hosts Startup Weekend Monterey Bay Jan. 25&#45;27. Startup Weekend will connect local entrepreneurs, developers, designers and startup enthusiasts with mentors and resources. Throughout the course of this 54&#45;hour event, attendees will share ideas, form teams and launch startups. ? “Startup Weekend is a great, safe experience to try being an entrepreneur,” said organizer Mary Jo Zenk. “This event will foster an innovating environment for entrepreneurs to share, vet and launch their ideas. “It’s like six months of entrepreneurship training in a weekend – and there’s no risk,” Zenk said. Here’s how it works: The weekend opens with open mic pitches on Friday, where attendees are encouraged to bring their best ideas and inspire others to join their team. You don't have to have an idea to attend. Teams organically form around the top ideas &#40;as deemed by popular vote&#41; and then it’s a 54&#45;hour frenzy of business model creation, coding, designing and market validation.
</p><p>On Sunday evening, teams demonstrate their prototypes in front of local entrepreneurial leaders with another opportunity for critical feedback.
</p><p>Startup veterans and mentors – including faculty members and local entrepreneurs – will be on hand throughout the weekend to provide expertise and give talks on their experiences. The Institute for Innovation and Economic Development housed at CSUMB is organizing the event. Sponsors include the Business and Entrepreneurship Center at Cabrillo College, the Youth Entrepreneurship Program, the Monterey County Business Council and the Small Business Development Center. Participants must purchase a ticket prior to the event. Before Dec. 21, tickets are $75 or $39 for college students and include meals, snacks and parking. <a href="http://csumb.startupweekend.org.">Register here</a>.
</p><p>For more information, contact Program Manager Mary Jo Zenk at &#40;831&#41; 582&#45;3230 or <a href="&#x6d;&#97;&#x69;&#108;t&#x6f;&#58;&#x6d;&#122;&#101;&#x6e;&#107;&#x40;&#99;&#115;&#x75;&#109;&#x62;&#x2e;&#101;&#x64;&#117;">mzenk@csumb.edu</a> or <a href="http://csumb.startupweekend.org">their website</a>.
</p><p>&#42;The Institute for Innovation and Economic Development &#40;iiED&#41; works with the Monterey County Business Council to continue expanding economic development services. iiED engages economic development organizations in project&#45;based approaches that address the growing needs of Monterey Bay region and CSU Monterey Bay, to provide research and support to growing businesses. For more information on the Institute, visit innovation.csumb.edu.&#42;
</p><p>&#42; &#42;
</p>
