---
slug: university-honored-for-contributions-to-local-economy
title: "University honored for contributions to local economy"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>CSU Monterey will be honored for its contribution to the economic vitality, growth and preservation of the area at the annual anniversary gala of the Monterey County Business Council.
</p><p>The event will be held on Feb. 4 at the InterContinental The Clement in Monterey. The university, one of six organizations to be honored in key industry clusters, is being recognized in the education and research category. CSU Monterey Bay leads the transformation of Fort Ord. The economy has delayed several projects on the former Army base, but the university has continued to move ahead – in enrollment, employment, facilities and housing. With a payroll of nearly 900, the university is one of the county’s 20 largest employers and a key player in its vital economic sector of higher education. Its annual financial impact of $270 million sustains an additional 1,400 jobs across the region and state. A third of CSUMB’s students come from Monterey, San Benito and Santa Cruz counties, and half of its 7,000 alumni remain in the tri-county area, working in business, science, education, technology and public service. Other ways the university impacts the area: • Last year, students contributed 65,000 hours of community service as part of its acclaimed service learning program. They completed internships in such fields as agribusiness, computer science, social work and communications. • Faculty members engage in applied research to address challenging policy issues in the region.
</p><p>• The university’s Small Business Development Center has served hundreds of clients along the Highway 101 corridor since 2009, helping to create dozens of new jobs.
</p><p>• The Institute for Innovation and Economic Development, a partnership with the Monterey County Business Council, will draw on university expertise to support local entrepreneurs. • Lectures, athletic events, performing arts, conferences and the OLLI lifelong education program enrich the area. • CSU Summer Arts will be located on campus for at least the next five years and will enhance the region’s vibrant arts scene.  
</p>
