---
slug: university-is-tops-in-scuba-diving
title: "University is tops in scuba diving"
date: January 01 2020
---

<h3>CSUMB named a Best College by Outdoor Activity</h3><p>Forget the U.S. News list of top colleges and universities. Ditto for the Princeton Review's rankings. Cal State Monterey Bay has been named No. 1 in the country on another list.</p><p>The Wenger Blog – Wenger manufactures Swiss Army knives – recently named the university to its list of Best Colleges by Outdoor Activity. On the blog devoted to the outdoor life, writer Patrick Hutchison selected CSUMB as the best college for scuba diving.</p><p>Hutchison writes for Seattle Magazine, Sea Kayaker and Highline Magazine as well as the blog.</p><p>While he acknowledges that many factors need to be considered when choosing a college, proximity to great outdoor activities can figure into the decision.</p><p>The blog says:</p><p>“ . . . many would argue that Monterey is the best dive site in the country and one of the best in the world. It’s also got one of California’s best public universities a mile away from shore. That’s right, a mile. Attend Cal State Monterey Bay, and epic wall dives are probably closer to your classes than your apartment will be.”</p><p>Scuba diving is the ticket to an underwater world. At CSUMB, many students learn to dive for fun, but some do it as part of their academic program. Classes in recreational diving have been available through the Kinesiology Department for years. In 2010, a scientific diving program was added, where students learn how to do research underwater. The popular class fills up quickly each semester. Diving is just one of the recreational activities available to students. The office of Outdoor Recreation helps students explore the natural world. The office organizes camping, hiking, kayaking, rock climbing, stand-up paddle boarding, biking and skiing outings.</p><p><a href="https://csumb.edu/diving">Learn more about the scientific diving program</a></p><p><a href="https://csumb.edu/outdoor">Learn more about outdoor recreation at CSUMB</a></p><p><em>Photos:<strong>Top: </strong>Student Shelby Peters in the kelp tank at the Monterey Bay Aquarium Bottom: A class dives in Monterey Bay</em></p>
