---
slug: veteran-finds-support-from-csumb-community
title: "Veteran finds support from CSUMB community"
date: January 01 2020
---

<p>Nov. 12, 2010
</p><h4>Former Army medic pursuing degree in health and human services</h4><p>Heather Cusson’s local roots run deep, but a circuitous route brought her to Cal State Monterey Bay. She grew up in Carmel Valley. Her father was stationed at Fort Ord during the Vietnam War. Her uncle graduated from CSU Monterey Bay. And now Cusson, 26, is a junior transfer student at the university, majoring in Collaborative Health and Human Services. She hopes one day to be a public health nurse — a dream backed up by two tours in Afghanistan as an Army medic. Her experience in Afghanistan — administering medical care to locals in remote villages, assisting in the treatment of gunshot wounds, amputations, burns and blast injuries to American soldiers — reinforced her passion to pursue a career in health care. When she returned to the U.S., she hoped to find a job as a trauma specialist but her lack of formal education in the field prevented that. Instead, she enrolled in Monterey Peninsula College. “Like most veterans, I was unaware of services that were available for someone in my situation. But thanks to the help of the veterans’ representatives at Monterey Peninsula College and CSUMB, I was guided down the right educational path,” she said. After earning an associate’s degree in 2010, she applied to MPC’s Maurine Church Coburn School of Nursing. When she realized that the school has a three-year waiting list, she decided to pursue a bachelor’s degree at CSUMB in the interim. “I believe the CHHS department really promotes making a positive impact in the community. A career in health and human services will provide me with a sense of service, similar to what I felt in the Army,” she said. Transition from Army life to civilian life has been challenging for Cusson. There’s a lack of the “Army family” she once knew so well. Luckily for her, she has support from her brother and husband, both veterans. And the fact that CSUMB is on the grounds of the former Fort Ord Army base is helping her, too. With former military buildings around campus, Cusson is reminded of her days at Fort Drum, N.Y., where she was stationed. “Having my classes in these kinds of buildings is welcoming. I also enjoy taking the time to observe the footprints left behind by fellow soldiers,” she said. At CSUMB, Cusson is in the company of other veterans. Last spring, 53 CSUMB student veterans were using various GI Bill benefits (38 of them using the new Post 9/11 GI Bill) and another 20 were using the Dependents Educational Assistance program as eligible dependents of veterans. And 89 students were eligible for the College Fee Waiver Program for Veterans' Dependents through the California Department of Veterans Affairs. These students, as family members of disabled or deceased veterans, receive a waiver of fees. This fall, 48 students are using the Post 9/11 GI Bill program. Among the university’s military-friendly practices are web pages with information specifically for veterans; a specially designated counselor and support team to help veterans make the transition from active duty service to accomplishing their personal educational goals; and a Student Veterans Organization that is currently in the planning stages. Cusson knows she is surrounded by people and resources that will keep her on the right track to obtain her dream job. “As far as the everyday transition, I’m still confronting issues of post-traumatic stress. However, I feel like I’m lucky to live in a community that acknowledges and supports my struggles as a veteran,” Cusson said. <em>– By Molly Nance, University Advancement</em>
</p>
